=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

fuel to the engine, can also be utilized to: a. jettiso n and transfer fuel b. jettiso n and heat the fuel c. tr ansfer and heat the fuel d. tr ansfer and recycle the fuel 4. Dur ing fuel jettison, the aircraft is protected against running out of fuel by: a. high le vel float switches b. pr eset jettison quantity switches c. the cr ew remaining alert d. lo w level float switches 5. T o indicate that a refuelling bowser carries JET A1 aviation kerosene: a. ye llow and black stripes are marked on the refuelling hose b. JE T A1 would be painted in 30 cm high symbols on the side of the container c. JE T A1 is printed in white on a black background label positioned prominently on the vehicle d. the dr iver wears a straw yellow water and fuel proof jacket 6. A djustments may have to made to an aircraft’s engine fuel system if it has been refuelled with JET B instead of its normal JET A1 fuel, these adjustments are to cater for: a. the c hange in the specific gravity of the fuel b. the c hange in the calorific value of the fuel c. the c hange in the viscosity of the fuel d. the l ack of HITEC lubricant in the fuel 7. T he differences between AVGAS 100 and AVGAS 100LL are: Colour Anti-knock value a. Same Same b. Same Diffe rent c. Different Same d. Different Diffe rent Order: 5422 16 333 Questions 16 Questions 8. T he aircraft cannot be refuelled while: a. a gr ound power unit is operating on the ramp b. pa ssengers are walking through the refuelling zones c. pa ssengers are boarding d. the AP U is running 9. T he disadvantage of refuelling the aircraft to “tanks full” the night before a departure in the heat of the day is that: a. the c hange in the specific gravity may cause the aircraft to be overweight b. the c hange in the volume of the fuel may cause it to spill through the vent system c. the c hange in calorific value may reduce engine power to below sufficient d. the rpm go vernor will be rendered inoperative 10. An air craft using MOGAS: a. is lik ely to be affected by detonation at cruise power b. mus t have booster pumps fitted in the fuel tanks c. is mo re likely to be affected by vapour locking and carburettor icing d. will suffe r from a loss of power during take-off ID: 5790 Questions 16 334 16Questions Question Paper 2 1. If a fue l sample appears cloudy or hazy, the most probable cause is: a. w ater contamination b. an ti-microbiological additives c. mixing diffe rent fuel grades d. oil in the fue l 2. O n an aircraft equipped with a compensated capacitance type fuel quantity indication system graduated to read in kg, the temperature increases just after the tanks are half filled with fuel. If the fuel expands by 10%, the gauges will show: a. an incr ease of 10% b. a decr ease of 10% of the volume factored by the new specific gravity c. a decr ease d. the same amoun t 3. T he exhaust gases from the APU go into the refuelling zone. The APU: a. mus t be switched OFF throughout the refuelling operation b. can be s tarted while refuelling is carried out. c. mus t be started before fuelling is carried out, and can be run throughout the refuelling operation d. can be s tarted only after the refuelling operation has been terminated 4. D e-fuelled fuel: a. can o nly be used in domestic heating systems b. can o nly be used by aircraft from the same operators fleet c. mus t be put back into storage d. canno t be re-used until its quality has been verified 5. T he background colour scheme for fuelling system pipelines carrying the following fuels is: JET A1 AVGAS a. R ed Bl ack b. Bl ack R ed c. R ed Y ellow d. Y ellow R ed 6. AVGAS: a. is colour ed red for identification purposes b. is colour ed green if it is a leaded fuel and blue if it is a low lead fuel c. h as no artificial colouring and appears either clear or a straw yellow colour d. can o nly be used in piston engines if oil is added to improve its anti-knock properties 7. Inf ormation relating to the use of MOGAS can be found in: a. C AA General Aviation Safety Sense Leaflets b. A dvisory Information Circulars c. NOTAM d. C AA Airworthiness Publications Order: 5422 16 335 Questions 16 Questions 8. T he fuel cross-feed valves are fitted in order to facilitate: a. the use o f fuel from any tank to any engine b. r efuelling when only one bowser is in use c. isol ation of the engine from the fuel system in the case of an engine fire d. tr ansfer of fuel between the main fuel tanks 9. R efuelling with passengers on board is not permissible: a. o n a fixed wing aircraft b. if A VGAS is being used c. if the air craft has more than twenty seats and the ratio of cabin attendants to passengers is greater than 1:50 and it is a wide bodied jet d. in any o f the above cases 10. Whil e refuelling with passengers on board, when a loading bridge is in use: a. t wo sets of extra steps must be provided, one of which must be at the rear of the aircraft b. the r ear left or right door must be manned constantly by a cabin attendant ready for use as an emergency exit using the inflatable escape slide c. gr ound servicing must not be carried out d. ca tering and cleaning must not be carried out 11. M odern jet aircraft fuel tanks are pressurized: a. by air fr om the engine compressor to prevent cavitation b. by air fr om the air conditioning system to prevent cavitation c. by r am air to prevent cavitation d. by r am air to stabilize the boiling point ID: 5790 Questions 16 336 16Questions Question Paper 3 1. A “wi de-cut” fuel is: a. mo re flammable than a kerosene type fuel b. le ss volatile than a kerosene type fuel c. colour ed red for identification purposes d. co mmonly used in civilian transport aircraft 2. T he purpose of fitting baffles in fuel tanks is to: a. pr event longitudinal movement of the fuel during acceleration b. allo w the booster pump to remain covered by fuel irrespective of the aircraft attitude c. d ampen lateral movement of the fuel in the wing tanks during a sideslip d. m aintain a pre-determined quantity of fuel in the outboard section of the wing tanks 3. F uel is heated: a. t o stop cavitation in the High Pressure fuel pump b. t o maintain a constant viscosity c. t o prevent water contamination d. t o stop ice blocking the Low Pressure fuel filter 4. Wh at is the function of a collector tank (feeder box)? a. Pr event detonation during take-off b. Pr event cavitation of the booster pumps c. Pr event fuel surge due to extreme aircraft attitude d. Allo w suction feeding of the engine pump 5. F uel tank booster pumps are: a. ce ntrifugal, low pressure b. ce ntrifugal, high pressure c. g ear type, low pressure d. g ear type, high pressure 6. T he advantage of a capacitor type fuel contents gauging system is that the circuit: a. r esponds to changes in specific gravity b. co mpensates for high altitude flight c. r esponds automatically to extremely low temperatures d. co mpensates for aircraft attitude changes 7. T he Low Pressure engine driven pump: a. ba cks up in case the engine High Pressure pump fails b. ba cks up in case of a double booster pump failure c. a ssists in the refuelling operation if only low pressure refuelling systems are available d. pr essurizes the fuel tanks to assist flow to the booster pumps Order: 5422 16 337 Questions 16 Questions 8. T he purpose of the fuel cooled oil cooler is to: a. hea t the oil and cool the fuel b. hea t the fuel and cool the oil c. cool the oil d. hea t the fuel 9. If a fue l tank with a capacitive quantity system was filled with water instead of fuel, the gauge would indicate: a. full scale lo w (zero) b. it w ould indicate the same as if it were filled with fuel c. full scale high (m ax) d. it w ould freeze at the last known indication 10.