=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

the ground can easily be moved up and down by hand. An aircraft that is in the cruise will be supported by its wings and they will be bent upwards. If the aircraft is subjected to a gust it will shake up and down with the wings flapping at a certain frequency. If the vibration is similar to that of the structure of the wing then it will begin to resonate. The resonance will amplify the flutter and may well lead to failure of the structure. Flutter must not occur within the normal flight operating envelope of the aircraft. Flutter can be prevented by mass balancing control surfaces to alter the moment of inertia of the surface and therefore the period of vibration (move the control surface C of G closer to the hinge). Poorly maintained aircraft, particularly those with excessive control surface backlash (play) or flexibility may mean that flutter could occur at speeds below the limit airspeed. Flutter of the mainplanes may be prevented by using the engines as mass balances, placing them on pylons forward of the wing leading edge. Stabilizing Surfaces There are many different designs of the empennage (tail unit) e.g. Conventional, T-tail, H-tail, V-tail (see Figure 1.25). ID: 5790 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces 1 24 1Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces Figure 1.25 The tail units provide, in most cases, the longitudinal and directional stability and the means of longitudinal control. Some aircraft have their longitudinal stability and control provided by foreplanes (canards). The horizontal surfaces, which are known as the tailplane or horizontal stabilizer , provide longitudinal stability by generating upwards or downwards forces as required. The vertical surface(s), vertical stabilizer or fin, generate sideways forces as required. Longitudinal control is provided by the elevators or moving tailplane with directional control provided by the rudder. Both the tailplane and the fin are subject to both bending and torsional stresses. Structurally the tail unit components are generally smaller versions of the mainplanes in that they use spars, ribs, stringers and skin in their construction. On some aircraft they may also be sealed to provide fuel tanks, particularly those used for longitudinal and/or mach trim. They also use the same basic materials i.e. aluminium alloys, composites with honeycomb structures or high density expanding foam being used for control surfaces, to provide greater stiffness at lower weight. Figure 1.26 The empennage Order: 5422 1 25 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces 1 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces Materials Used Modern aircraft are constructed mainly of aluminium and its alloys with smaller amounts of steel and titanium for the major structural components with composite materials used extensively for more lightly loaded structures. However many of the latest aircraft make use of modern composites for the empennage, cabin floor panels, flying control surfaces, engine cowlings and fairings. Each material is chosen for its particular properties with regard to fatigue strength, wear resistance, strength to weight ratio, fire resistance etc. Aluminium and its alloys are the most widely used metals for structural use due to a good strength to weight ratio with ‘duralumin’ type alloys predominating due to their good fatigue resistance. Duralumin is a copper-based aluminium alloy which has poor corrosion resistance except when clad with pure aluminium (Alclad). It also has good thermal and electrical conductivity but is difficult to weld. Steel and its alloys are only used where strength is vital and weight penalties can be ignored. Titanium is much lighter than steel and can be used where fire protection is required e.g. firewalls. It has good strength and retains this and its corrosion resistance up to temperatures of 400°C. Magnesium alloys are also used, their principal advantage being their weight. This gives an excellent strength to weight ratio (aluminium is one and a half times heavier). The elastic properties of magnesium are not very satisfactory so its use in primary structures is limited. Composite Materials Composite materials are made of at least two elements to produce a material with properties that are different to those of the original elements. Nearly all composites consist of a bulk material, this is called the matrix and some form of reinforcement. This reinforcement is used mainly to increase the strength and stiffness of the matrix and is usually in a fibre form. The matrix can be produced using a variety of materials such as epoxies and polyester resins. These materials on their own have poor mechanical properties (compressive, tensile, flexibility, hardness etc.) especially when compared to materials such as most metals. They do however have many desirable properties, the most important of which is their ability to be easily formed into complex shapes. When the matrix is combined with reinforcing fibres such as glass, carbon and Kevlar (aramid) exceptional properties can be obtained. The matrix will spread the load to the composite between each of the individual fibres and also protects the fibres from damage. This could be caused by impact or abrasion. These composites have good resistance to corrosion but their fatigue behaviour is different to that of conventional metal alloys and is not generally a consideration at stress levels below approximately 80% of ultimate stress. Metal structures suffering fatigue retain their design strength up to a critical point after which failure occurs rapidly whereas composites lose their properties gradually. Many composites have low electrical conductivity but specialist coatings can be applied to give the required electrostatic discharge and lightning strike protection. ID: 5790 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces 1 26 1Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces Interest in composites for structural use continues to grow due to their high specific strength, specific stiffness and their ability to retain those properties at elevated temperatures. It is also possible to tailor strength to the direction of the load. There are cost factors involved in the use of composites in aircraft. The manufacturing costs are high due to it being a labour intensive and often complex process. These factors are outweighed by the reduced operating costs. Aircraft such as the Boeing Dreamliner are approximately 20% lighter and this gives a large reduction in fuel consumption Sandwich Construction This is used extensively on aircraft of all types, typically for flight control surfaces, flooring, fuselage panels, empennage skin and sound proofing for engines. It is a laminar construction that uses a honeycomb core with skins of composite material (GRP or CFP) or aluminium alloy, and it can be used to provide rigidity and strength. It has a good strength to weight ratio and is particularly strong in the direction of the honeycomb openings. Parts made of a sandwich material need additional provision to carry concentrated loads. Figure 1.27 Attachment Methods There are many methods of joining materials but the common methods are: • riveting • welding • bolting • pinning • bonding Riveting This has been the most common way of joining materials and involves placing a rivet in a pre drilled hole. The tail of the rivet is deformed and this clamps the material together. There are times when access is limited to one side only so there a are variety of blind rivets. Rivets may be set by hand or by a power operated machine. All rivets are meant to be used in shear and have little strength in tension. Welding This is a process where the two metals are fused to become one. Fusion welding is where a gas flame is used to heat the metal and a filling material is used to fill the gaps. There are many other types of welding including forge, electric arc and spot welding, all of which have particular applications. Order: 5422 1 27 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces 1 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces Bolting This is employed where high shear or tensile loads are experienced. Most applications use steel bolts. These must be locked to make sure that they do not loosen in service. This may involve the use of locking wire, split pins or special nuts. Pinning As the name implies this uses pins of various designs to hold the materials together. Adhesive Bonding Redux bonding is one of the common methods used. A sheet of adhesive is placed between the two materials, heat is then applied to cure the adhesive which produces a strong bond. One advantage of this method is that compared to say riveted joints, it is easier to seal structures making it particularly useful for fuel tanks. Corrosion Introduction Corrosion may be regarded as the slow destruction of a metal by electrochemical action, electrolytic corrosion. Considerable research by chemists and metallurgists is continually being carried out to find more effective methods of preventing this destruction, but corrosion remains a major problem. General Most metals are unstable, corrosion is the tendency of the metal to return to a stable state similar to that of the metallic ore from which it originated. With corrosive attack the metal is converted into metallic compounds such as oxides, hydroxides, carbonates, sulphates or other salts. Corrosion is largely electrochemical in character, and occurs in