=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

i.e. both sides of the pump and sometimes in the return line to the reservoir; a suction filter to protect the pump, and a pressure filter to ensure the cleanliness of fluid during use. They remove foreign particles from the fluid, and protect the seals and working surfaces in the components. In addition, individual components often have a small filter fitted to the inlet connection, and constant pressure pumps will have a “case drain filter” to help monitor pump condition. Some filters are fitted with a device which senses the pressure differential across the filter element, and releases a visual indicator, in the form of a button or illuminates a warning lamp, when the pressure differential increases as a result of the filter becoming clogged. False indication of element clogging, as a result of high fluid viscosity at low temperature, is prevented by a bi-metal spring which inhibits indicator button movement at low temperatures. Other filters are fitted with a relief valve, which allows unfiltered fluid to pass to the system when the element becomes clogged; this type of filter element must be changed at regular intervals. Paper filter elements are usually discarded when removed, but elements of wire cloth may usually be cleaned. Cleaning by an ultrasonic process is normally recommended, but if a new or cleaned element is not available when the element becomes due for check, the old element may be cleaned in trichloroethane as a temporary measure. Figure 2.9 Filter ID: 5790 Basic Hydraulics 2 58 2Basic Hydraulics Pumps Draw oil from the reservoir and deliver a supply of fluid to the system. Pumps may be: • hand operated • engine driven • electric motor driven • pneumatically (air turbine motor) (ATM) • ram air turbine (HYDRAT or RAT) • hydraulically (Hyd. motor driving a hyd. pump). Known as a Power Transfer Unit or PTU. In most cases the ATM, RAT or PTU is used to provide an alternate supply as part of the redundancy provision for the safe operation of the aircraft. Hand Pumps may be the only source of power in a small, light aircraft hydraulic system, but in larger aircraft are employed: • to allow ground servicing to take place without the need for engine running. • so that lines and joints can be pressure tested. • so that cargo doors etc., can be operated without power. The hand pump is usually a double acting pump (delivers oil on both strokes) in a very compact body. It incorporates non-return valves (NRVs), and a relief valve which can be set to relieve at any required pressure, typically this is about 10% above normal system pressure. Refer to Figure 2.10. Figure 2.10 Hand pump Order: 5422 2 59 Basic Hydraulics 2 Basic Hydraulics Engine driven pumps (EDP) or electrically driven pumps may be classified as follows: • Constant Delivery (Fixed Volume) Type Pump. This pump supplies fluid at a constant rate and therefore needs an automatic cut-out or relief valve to return the fluid to the reservoir when the jacks have reached the end of their travel, and when the system is not operating, it requires an idling circuit. This pump is usually a single or double stage gear pump giving a large flow at a small pressure, typically up to 2000 psi. Figure 2.11 A spur gear type oil pump Figure 1.10. A Spur Gear Type Oil Pump.• Constant Pressure (Variable Volume) Pump. This pump supplies fluid at a variable volume and controls its own pressure, this type of pump is typically fitted in modern aircraft whose systems operate at 3000-4000 psi. The cylinder block and drive shaft are coaxial and rotate carrying the pistons with them which slide up and down in the cylinder block. The pistons are attached to shoes which rotate against a stationary yoke, and the angle between the yoke and cylinder block is varied to increase or decrease piston stroke thus increasing or decreasing pump output. Figure 2.12 ID: 5790 Basic Hydraulics 2 60 2Basic Hydraulics Figure 2.13 and Figure 2.14 shows the operation of the pump. When pressure in the system is low, as would be the case following selection of a service, spring pressure on the control piston turns the yoke to its maximum angle, and the pistons are at full stroke, delivering maximum output to the system. When the actuator has completed its stroke, pressure builds up until the control piston moves the yoke to the minimum stroke position; in this position a small flow through the pump is maintained, to lubricate the working parts, overcome internal leakage and dissipate heat. This lubricating oil drains back to the reservoir through the case drain. Pump condition can be monitored by a filter and overheat detector in the case drain. On some pumps a solenoid-operated depressurizing valve (off load valve) is used to block delivery to the system, and to off load the pump. System pressure is maintained and the pump output falls to 50 - 200 psi approx allowing oil to circulate, lubricating and cooling the pump. The solenoid is energized when the pump is off loaded. Note Many transport aircraft have constant pressure or demand type hydraulic pumps. A constant delivery pump delivers the same amount of fluid without regard to flow required by the system, with unused fluid being returned to the reservoir via a relief valve. This wastes energy. A variable volume or constant pressure pump is better suited to the needs of a transport aircraft in that it can alter the outlet flow as more services are operated. It will increase flow to maintain working pressure. So regardless of the number of actuators or motors being operated the system will function properly. Order: 5422 2 61 Basic Hydraulics 2 Basic Hydraulics Figure 2.13 Constant pressure pump at maximum stroke Figure 2.14 Constant pressure pump at minimum stroke ID: 5790 Basic Hydraulics 2 62 2Basic Hydraulics Automatic Cut-out Valves (ACOV) An automatic cut-out valve (ACOV) is fitted to a system employing a constant delivery (fixed volume) pump, to control system pressure and to provide the pump with an idling circuit when no services have been selected. An accumulator is fitted as part of the power system when a cut-out is fitted, since any slight leakage through components, or from the system, would result in frequent operation of the cut-out, and frequent loading and unloading of the pump. The accumulator maintains the system pressure when the pump is in its ‘cut-out’ position. Figure 2.15 Automatic cut-out valve (ACOV) The automatic cut-out valve in its ‘cut-in‘ position allows the delivery from the pump to pass through the non-return valve and pressurize the system. When system pressure has been reached the piston is forced upwards by the pressure acting underneath it and opens the poppet valve allowing the output of the pump to pass to the reservoir at low pressure. The ACOV is now in its ‘cut-out’ position allowing the pump to be off loaded but still maintaining a lubricating and cooling flow. The NRV holds system pressure with the aid of the accumulator. If system pressure falls, due to a service being selected, the piston falls, closing the poppet valve and allowing the rising pump pressure to be delivered through the NRV to the system again (cut-in). The time between cut-out (off load) and cut-in (on load) (periodicity) of the ACO valve is a good indication of the condition of the system. • External leakage will cause a reduction in the operating period with frequent loading and unloading of the pump; also with a loss of system fluid. • Internal leakage, usually caused by a piston seal failure, will also cause frequent loading and unloading of the pumps; although with no fluid loss there could be an increase in fluid temperature. Order: 5422 2 63 Basic Hydraulics 2 Basic Hydraulics Hydraulic Accumulators An accumulator is fitted: • to store hydraulic fluid under pressure. • to dampen pressure fluctuations. • to allow for thermal expansion. • to provide an emergency supply of fluid to the system in the event of pump failure. • to prolong the period between cut-out and cut-in time of the ACOV and so reduce the wear on the pump. • to provide the initial fluid when a selection is made and the pump is cut-out. Figure 2.16 Hydraulic accumulators Figure 1.14 Hydraulic Accumulators A non-return valve fitted upstream of an accumulator, prevents fluid from being discharged back to the reservoir. Two different types of accumulator are illustrated in Figure 2.16 but many other types are used. The accumulators shown are the most commonly used. The gas side of the accumulator is charged to a predetermined pressure with air or nitrogen. As hydraulic pressure builds up in the system, the gas is compressed until fluid and gas pressures equalize at normal system pressure. At this point the pump commences to idle, and system pressure is maintained by the accumulator. If a service is selected, a supply of fluid under pressure is available until pressure