=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

compensating for brake wear. Order: 5422 6 131 Aircraft Brakes 6 Aircraft Brakes If the return spring inside the adjuster assembly ceases to function, or if the unit is wrongly adjusted, then they could be the cause of a brake not releasing correctly. This is termed brake drag. Brake drag will generate a lot of heat and can be responsible for Brake Fade occurring sooner than it otherwise would. Figure 6.2 A brake adjuster assembly Brake Wear Aircraft brakes are designed to give good retardation, while at the same time avoiding excessive wear of the brake lining material. It is important that the thickness of the brake lining material is carefully monitored. Too little brake lining material remaining may mean that the disc of a single disc brake system may become excessively worn or grooved, or that on a multiple disc brake, the remaining material overheats and erodes extremely fast. There are several methods of determining the amount of brake lining material which remains on the brake unit, the following are just some of those methods. On multiple disc brake systems, the most popular method of gauging the depth of brake lining material remaining is by checking the amount that the retraction pin (or the indicator pin, as it is sometimes called) extends from (or intrudes within) the spring housing with the brakes selected on. ID: 5790 Aircraft Brakes 6 132 6Aircraft Brakes Figure 6.3 shows how a wear gauge can be used to check that the retraction pin has not moved too far within the spring housing. An alternative method which can be used if no retraction pins are fitted to the system is that whereby the amount of clearance between the back of the pressure plate and the brake housing can be measured, once again with the brakes applied. If the brake is a single disc unit, the amount of brake lining material remaining can be checked by once again applying the brakes and measuring the distance between the disc and the brake housing and ensuring that it is no less than a minimum value. Figure 6.3 Measuring brake wear in a multiple disc brake system Brake System Operation Operation of the brake pedals on the flight deck, allows hydraulic fluid under pressure to move small pistons which, by moving the pressure plate, force the stator pads against the rotor plates, with the resultant friction slowing the plates down. On a small aircraft the hydraulic pressure from the brake pedals may be enough to arrest its progress. On a large aircraft it is obvious that foot power alone will be insufficient, some other source of hydraulic power is required. This is supplied by the aircraft main hydraulic system. Brake Modulating Systems Optimum braking is important in the operation of modern aircraft with their high landing speeds, low drag and high weight, particularly when coupled with operation from short runways in bad weather. The pilot is unable to sense when the wheels lock and so the first requirement of a brake modulating system is to provide anti-skid protection. Whenever braking torque is developed there must be only a degree of slip between the wheel and the ground, a skidding wheel provides very little braking effect. In all brake modulating systems the deceleration of the individual wheels is taken as the controlling parameter of braking torque. Order: 5422 6 133 Aircraft Brakes 6 Aircraft Brakes A datum figure for wheel deceleration is selected which is known to be greater than the maximum possible deceleration of the aircraft - of the order of 18 ft/s2 (6 m/s2) - and when this datum figure is exceeded, brake pressure is automatically reduced or released. The facility to “hold off” brake pressure in the event of a wheel bounce or to prevent brake operation before touchdown may also be built into the system. Systems may be mechanical or electrical, mechanical systems have been in use since the early 1950s. Most aircraft use electrical or electronic systems. Effects of Anti-skid Systems on Performance An anti-skid system will reduce the braking distance on both take-off and landing. An inoperative anti-skid system will increase the take-off and landing distances required. Data will be available to determine the runway length required in the event of a rejected take-off. Note Take-off is prohibited with an inoperative anti-skid system on a wet runway Mechanical Anti-skid Systems The basic principle of these systems is the use of the inertia of a flywheel as a sensor of wheel deceleration. A wheel directly driven by the aircraft wheel is coupled to the flywheel by a spring. Any changes in aircraft wheel velocity cause a relative displacement between the flywheel and the driven wheel. This relative displacement is used as a control signal to operate a valve in the hydraulic braking system to release the brake pressure. The unit may be wheel rim or axle mounted. Electronic Anti-skid Systems The response rates of the flywheels used in mechanical systems are low when compared with electrical signalling and furthermore the modulation does not always conform to the true runway conditions. It is also much easier to alter the response rates and system biases of electronic circuitry to suit different aircraft types, thus making it simpler to adapt the circuits to match the requirements of new aircraft types. The electronic system gives approximately a 15% improvement over the mechanical unit with the advantage that it can be tested prior to use. The electronic system comprises three main elements: • A sensor which measures wheel speed. • A control box to compute wheel speed information. • A servo valve to modulate brake pressure. The basic control loop described above offers few advantages over a mechanical system except that the cycling rate is much improved. A system refinement is that of the Adaptive Pressure Bias Modulation Circuit. ID: 5790 Aircraft Brakes 6 134 6Aircraft Brakes This ensures that the brake pressure applied immediately after a wheel is released after an Anti-Skid Unit (ASU) operation, is lower than the pressure which was applied before the ASU operation preventing an immediate return to the conditions that caused the ASU to release the pressure in the first place. The ASU has a number of important functions that may include. • Touchdown protection. This will prevent the brakes being applied before touchdown. The electronic anti-skid controller will monitor the wheel speed and air/ground logic. If no signal is received the brakes cannot be applied while the aircraft is airborne. On touchdown the wheels ‘spin up’ and apply a signal to the controller which will now allow the brakes to be applied. • Skid prevention. The anti-skid controller will reduce the brake pressure to any wheel that it determines is approaching a skid by monitoring the deceleration rate of the individual wheels. • Locked wheel protection If a wheel locks because of a wet patch, or ice, the anti-skid controller will release the pressure to that wheel completely until the wheel spins up again and the pressure will be re-applied. • Hydroplane protection Systems that have this facility will monitor aircraft velocity and wheel speeds of a complete bogie. If all braked wheels hydroplane and lock up, then the pressure to some of the wheels is released. The method varies from aircraft to aircraft but typically, if all braked wheels lock then a number of brakes are released e.g. two wheels on a four wheel bogie would be released. The remaining pair will provide locked wheel protection. Subsequently, the hydroplaned pair will spin up and they will in turn provide locked wheel protection. If hydroplane conditions still exist the other pair will be released To enable the pilot to have full control of the brakes for taxiing and manoeuvring, the anti-skid system is deactivated, either manually or automatically, when the aircraft has slowed down to below approximately 20 mph, it is assumed then that there is no further danger of skidding. Order: 5422 6 135 Aircraft Brakes 6 Aircraft Brakes Typical Aircraft Wheel Brake System The brakes are powered by one of the aircraft hydraulic power systems (system 1) with automatic switch over to an alternate system (system 2) in the event of low system 1 pressure. When normal and alternate brake hydraulic sources are lost, an accumulator is automatically selected to maintain parking brake pressure. Anti-skid Protection The anti-skid valves receive hydraulic pressure from the normal brake metering valves or the autobrake valves with the anti-skid control unit providing electrical signals to the anti-skid valves to control braking during skid conditions. Wheel speed transducers mounted in the axle transmit wheel speed inputs to the anti-skid control unit. Each wheel is provided individually with anti-skid protection when normal brakes are operative. When skidding is initially detected, the anti-skid controller commands the respective anti-skid valve to reduce brake pressure which protects the wheel from further skidding. Touchdown braking protection is provided by comparing wheel speed to IRS (inertial reference system) ground speed. During alternate brake operation anti-skid protection is provided to wheel pairs rather