=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

start up or when air conditioning is selected to minimize the possibility of a surge of air pressure. They are also designed to close very quickly to prevent an ingress of fumes or fire to the cabin in the event of an engine fire. The bleed air control valve is the separation point between the engine and the pneumatic system manifold and allows the bleed air to enter the pneumatic system and is controlled electrically from the flight deck. Non-return valves (NRV) are installed in the LP stage ducts to prevent HP air entering the LP stages of the engine when the high pressure shut-off valve is open. Most multi-engine aircraft also keep the supplying engines or sides separate with each engine supplying its own user services. These are kept independent by isolation valves which are normally closed but which may be opened if an engine supply is lost to feed the other side’s services. Order: 5422 10 209 Aircraft Pneumatic Systems 10 Aircraft Pneumatic Systems The system will be fitted with a duct pressure gauge, valve position indicators and overheat sensors both inside and outside the supply ducts. The system will also be fitted with safety devices to prevent damage to the supply ducting due to overpressure or overheat. • Overpressure This is usually caused by failure of the high pressure shut-off valve and a pressure relief valve is fitted to the engine bleed air ducting. If the overpressure persists, a sensor bleeds off the HPSOV opening pressure and forces the valve to close. • Overheat An electrical temperature switch downstream of the bleed air control valve will close the valve if the temperature of the air reaches a predetermined level. Both overheat and overpressure conditions will be indicated to the pilots by warning lights. If an overheat occurrence took place, the bleed valve switch would be selected ‘ OFF’ and the isolation valve opened to restore the lost system. Air Cycle Cooling This is the preferred system for most modern jet transport aircraft and uses the principles of energy conversion and surface heat exchange for its operation. At the heart of the system is the Cold Air Unit (CAU) of which the turbo-compressor, or bootstrap, is one basic type. The CAU is often referred to as an air cycle machine (ACM). Turbo-compressor (Bootstrap) This is the most popular air cycle system in current use being used where high pressure bleed air is not available or its use is undesirable as in the case of aircraft using high bypass ratio or small turbo-propeller engines. The low pressure bleed air (or air from a blower) is pre-cooled in the primary heat exchanger and then has its pressure boosted by the compressor. This is done in order to make the energy conversion (i.e. heat and pressure to work) process across the turbine more efficient. Between the compressor and the turbine is the secondary heat exchanger which serves to remove any excess temperature rise across the compressor. The point to note is the pressure rise across the compressor which allows the use of much lower initial tapping pressures while still being able to achieve a sufficiently high pressure drop across the turbine. In order to provide sufficient airflow across the cold air unit when the aircraft is on the ground or at low speed in the air, a fan is provided to draw in air through the ram air or ground cooling air ducts. The ram air doors may be opened and closed according to flap position or modulated automatically by signals from the temperature control system. This fan may be electrically powered or be a third wheel of the cold air unit. ID: 5790 Aircraft Pneumatic Systems 10 210 10Aircraft Pneumatic Systems Figure 10.6 Typical bleed air (“bootstrap”) system Figure 10.7 Typical performance of a bootstrap system Order: 5422 10 211 Aircraft Pneumatic Systems 10 Aircraft Pneumatic Systems Heat Exchanger These components operate on the principle of surface heat exchange and normally use ram air as the cooling medium. They are designed to give a thermal efficiency of at least 80% of the difference between the charge air temperature and the ambient air temperature but can never reduce the charge air temperature below that of ambient hence the need for the cold air units. Ground Cooling Fan The ground cooling fan, as its name implies, allows the air conditioning system to be used when the aircraft is on the ground by drawing (or pushing) air across the primary and, if necessary, the secondary heat exchangers. It may be electrically driven or be powered by a third wheel on the cold air unit. Water Separator Located downstream of the turbine of the air cycle machine, the water separator removes the excess water which condenses during the cooling process. This is a problem at low altitude and when running the system on the ground during conditions of high humidity. A safety valve is provided to ensure that the flow of air to the cabin is safeguarded in the event of the water extractor icing up. In some installations a temperature sensor controls an anti-ice bypass valve which allows hot air to pass directly into the airflow between the turbine and the water separator to prevent icing. Figure 10.8 Water separator ID: 5790 Aircraft Pneumatic Systems 10 212 10Aircraft Pneumatic Systems Humidifier In aircraft operating at high altitudes for long periods of time it may be necessary to increase the moisture content of the conditioning air from the 1-2% relative humidity of the ambient air to a more comfortable level to prevent physical discomfort arising from low relative humidity. This is the function of the humidifier, a typical example of which is shown below. The aircraft’s drinking water supply is used and the water is atomized by air from the air conditioning supply. Figure 10.9 “Venturi humidifier” humidity control Ram Air Valves The ram air valves (inlet and outlet doors) are opened and closed by the pack controller and regulate the amount of air entering the ram air duct. This is done automatically as part of the temperature control system and during landing and take-off in order to prevent ingestion of foreign matter. Mass Flow Controller This component is fitted to ensure that a constant mass flow is supplied regardless of the engine rpm. The mass flow controller spills excess air to atmosphere when used with blower systems but the variable orifice valve fitted to bleed air systems is calibrated so that the total aerodynamic effect on its internal mechanism automatically adjusts the orifice so that the required mass flow passes to the system irrespective of changes in the value of the pressure upstream and downstream of the unit. Order: 5422 10 213 Aircraft Pneumatic Systems 10 Aircraft Pneumatic Systems Temperature Control The temperature of the air entering the cabin is usually achieved by mixing hot air with cooled air. There are two basic methods of temperature control, mechanical and electromechanical. The simple non-automatic manual method consists of valves which are manually positioned to regulate the temperature by mixing hot and cold air prior to it entering the cabin. Automatic control of the cabin, flight deck, cargo holds etc. temperature is achieved by comparing a pilot selected temperature with the temperature of the mixed air inlet to the cabin etc. Sensors in the cabin and the supply ducts are compared electronically with the selected value and any difference modulates the hot air bypass valve to allow more or less air to pass through the cooling components to obtain the correct temperature at the point of mixing. In manual control the valves will move in response to hot/cold or increase/decrease selection. H C Figure 1.10. Figure 10.10 ID: 5790 Aircraft Pneumatic Systems 10 214 10Aircraft Pneumatic Systems Air Distribution Most passenger transport aircraft supply warm air to the cabin walls by means of floor and wall passages which maintains the interior surfaces at cabin temperature, reducing draughts, direct heat losses which in turn allows the entering air temperature to be closer to the cabin temperature. The ducting is in two distinct sections to provide for separate flows of cold and heated air. The cold (conditioned) air is supplied to the passengers through the gasper air system. Conditioned air is also supplied to the flight deck to the crew stations where it can be adjusted for flow direction and quantity. It is also supplied to the flight deck windows for de- misting purposes. Figure 10.11 Cabin air distribution Gasper Air Gasper air is tapped from one of the zone supply ducts upstream of where trim air is added and the gasper fan provides a positive supply of conditioned air to all zones through individually controlled outlets (punkah louvres). Trim Air In order to avoid large temperature gradients between the extremities of the cabin it is often necessary to divide the cabin into sections and deal with each as a separate distribution problem (zone trim). The temperature delivered by the packs is determined by the zone requiring