=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

SHUT-OFF VALVE NO.2 TANK FUEL FEED CENTRE TANK FUEL PUMPS FUEL VALVE CLOSED LOW PRESSURE LOW PRESSURE 1 LOW PRESSURE LOW PRESSURE R LOW PRESSURE SUCTION VALVE Courtesy of the Boeing Company Order: 5422 16 319 Aircraft Fuel Systems 16 Aircraft Fuel Systems Aircraft Fuel Systems (Twin Engines) The normal sequence of fuel usage after take-off would be to use the centre tank fuel first followed by the wing tank fuel. This sequence helps to relieve the wing bending stress. When the booster pumps can no longer pump fuel from the centre tank the residual fuel can be removed to the No.1 tank by use of the centre tank scavenge system. The cross-feed valve allows both engines to be fed from one side or one engine to be fed from both sides. Suction valves in the tanks allow the engine to be fed by gravity or suction by the engine driven pump in the event of both booster pumps failing in one tank. The control panel shows selector switches for each pump accompanied by low pressure warning lights to show pump failure or low fuel level. There is also a control switch and indicator light for the cross-feed valve. There is a temperature sensor in the No.1 tank which will transmit the fuel tank temperature to an indicator on the control panel. The engine fuel shut-off valve is closed by the operation of the fire handle for that particular engine, in some aircraft it is also operated by the selection of the fuel switch during the normal start or shutdown procedure. The APU takes its fuel from the No.1 tank from a bypass valve if there are no booster pumps operating, but could be fed from any tank if a booster pump in that tank was selected on. The APU shut-off valve is typically operated by the automatic start or stop sequence. Fuel imbalance in flight between the No.1 and No.2 tank can be corrected by selective switching of the booster pumps and cross-feed valve (open the cross-feed and switch off the pumps in the tank with less fuel until the correct balance is achieved by supplying both engines from the tank with more fuel). When the correct balance is achieved switch on the booster pumps previously switched off and close the cross-feed valve. This will restore the ‘tank to engine’ configuration (No.1 tank feeding No.1 engine and No.2 tank feeding No.2 engine). The control panel also has indicators to show low pressure fuel filter bypass valve open (filter blockage). This filter is the low pressure filter in the engine fuel system downstream of the fuel heater. Note: Unusable Fuel It is not possible to burn all the fuel in the aircraft fuel tanks. The fuel pickup is not at the absolute bottom of the tank. This is done to leave fuel in the tank in case there is some water or sediment. This is what you are checking for when you do a fuel contamination check. The amount of unusable fuel for each tank will be stated in the aircraft manual. ID: 5790 Aircraft Fuel Systems 16 320 16Aircraft Fuel Systems Figure 16.4 A modern twin-engine ETOPS aircraft fuel system The spar (LP) valve shuts off the fuel as it leaves the tank system and the engine fuel shut-off (HP) valve shuts off the fuel at the engine firewall. The centre tank is split into two parts but it operates at all times as a single tank. The cross-feed valve is duplicated to provide redundancy, normally both valves move together as one. There are two shut-off valves in the fuel line to the engine. The APU has a DC electric fuel pump which will switch on automatically if the APU is operated with no booster pumps operating. This pump will also automatically start and the APU isolation valve will open to allow the DC pump to supply fuel to the left engine for rapid restarting, in the event of a double engine failure. Order: 5422 16 321 Aircraft Fuel Systems 16 Aircraft Fuel Systems Aircraft Fuel Systems (Multi-engines) Fuel Jettison or Dump The diagram of the right hand wing of an older four-engine aircraft below shows similar components to the twin-engine system. The aircraft has a stabilizer tank which feeds fuel into the transfer gallery or into the centre tank. Where fuel pipes are routed through the pressurized rear fuselage they are double skinned to prevent fuel fumes entering the cabin in the event of a leaking pipe. This type of aircraft also has a jettison system. This would be required if the maximum landing mass of the aircraft is significantly less than the maximum take-off mass and landing at the higher mass would compromise the structural integrity of the aircraft or if the aircraft could not satisfy the climb requirements of CS-25 and the discontinued approach requirements of CS- 25. In an emergency therefore fuel can be dumped to reduce the mass to its maximum landing mass. Fuel dumping is accomplished by pumping fuel out of a dump master valve, typically one on each wing at the trailing edge, well outboard to enable the fuel to be dumped safely with no danger of it entering the aircraft or any of its systems. Fuel dumping is controlled from the pilot’s or flight engineer’s fuel control panel. The amount of fuel to be dumped (or the amount of fuel to remain) can often be selected and automatically controlled. The fuel dumping process will be automatically stopped when this level has been reached. It would be clearly undesirable to dump all of the fuel in the aircraft and safeguards must be in place to allow a minimum amount of fuel to remain. The minimum amount is stipulated in CS-25 which states that the fuel remaining after jettisoning must be sufficient to enable the aircraft to climb to 10 000 ft an d thereafter allow 45 minutes cruise at a speed for maximum range. Management of this type of fuel system may be manual (flight engineer) or in more modern two pilot aircraft, (747-400), can be almost fully automatic only requiring the minimum of input from the pilot. The majority of the monitoring and switching actions are accomplished by a fuel management computer. The stabilizer and centre tank fuel would be used first either by transferring to the main tanks, as in our old system, or by selective fuel feed, as in the modern aircraft. For the same reason as in the twin, fuel would be kept in the outboard section of the wings as long as possible. ID: 5790 Aircraft Fuel Systems 16 322 16Aircraft Fuel Systems Figure 16.5 A representative jet aircraft engine fuel system No 3 ENGINE R P P P P P P P P J J J RRRRR R CENTRE TANK TANK No. 3 TANK No. 4 TANK No. 4A VENT SURGE TANK REFUEL CONNECTION No. 4 ENGINE INTER ENGINE VALVE CROSS-FEED VALVE FUEL TRANSFER CROSS-FEED VALVE FUEL SHUT-OFF VALVE JETTISON MASTER VALVE REFUEL & JETTISON GALLERY FLOAT OPERATED VENT VALVE FLOAT SWITCH DIFFUSER JETTISON VALVE REFUELVALVE NON-RETURN VALVE BOOSTER/TRANSFER PUMP RAM AIR TO LEFT SIDE No 3 ENGINE No. 3 ENGINEPP STABILIZER TANK FUEL SHUT-OFF VALVE S S S SUCTION VALVE Order: 5422 16 323 Aircraft Fuel Systems 16 Aircraft Fuel Systems Fuel Quantity Measurement There are two methods of measuring fuel quantity. • Measuring volume by varying a resistance by a float - normally restricted to light aircraft, is subject to manoeuvring error and cannot compensate for variations of density. • Measuring weight or mass by varying capacitance - essential on modern passenger aircraft - does not suffer from manoeuvring error and can compensate for variations of density. The capacitive method works by supplying the two plates of a capacitor with AC. The current that flows in the circuit now depends on four factors, the level of voltage applied, the frequency of the supply, the size of the plates and the dielectric constant of the material separating the plates. In our circuit three of these factors are fixed and the fourth, the dielectric constant, is variable because the dielectric consists of fuel and air. The higher the level of fuel in the tank the more fuel and less air will be in the capacitor probe, and vice versa. The amount of current flowing in the circuit therefore depends on the amount of fuel/air between the plates and in measuring this current we can have an accurate indication of the mass of fuel in our tanks. The system can be made sensitive to the specific gravity (density) of the fuel so that although the volume of a quantity of fuel may increase with a temperature rise, the resulting decrease in the specific gravity will ensure that the indicated mass (weight) remains the same. To compensate for change in aircraft attitude the capacitive system may have many capacitor probes in the tank connected in parallel to ‘average’ the measurement of the fuel in the tank. This enables