=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

greatest. This is achieved by putting a spring in the linkage to the tab. The spring tab is used mainly to reduce control loads at high airspeeds. Figure 8.9 Figure 8.10 • Servo Tab. The purpose of the servo tab is to enable the pilot to move the control surface easily. In this system there is no direct movement of the control surface as a result of moving the cockpit control. The pilot’s control input deflects the servo tab, and the force on the tab then deflects the control surface until an equilibrium position is reached. If the aircraft is stationary on the ground, movement of the cockpit control will give no movement of the control surface, only of the tab, and it should be noted that if external control locks are fitted to the control surface, the cockpit control will still be free to move. Figure 8.11 Servo Tab ID: 5790 Flight Controls 8 172 8Flight Controls Mass Balance Mass balance is a weight attached to the control surface forward of the hinge. Most control surfaces are mass balanced. The purpose of this is to prevent control surface flutter. Flutter is an oscillation of the control surface which can occur due to the bending and twisting of the structure under load. If the centre of gravity of the control surface is behind the hinge, its inertia causes it to oscillate about its hinge when the structure distorts. In certain circumstances the oscillations can be divergent, and cause failure of the structure. Flutter may be prevented by adding weight to the control surface in front of the hinge line. This brings the centre of gravity of the control forward to a position which is normally close to, or slightly in front of the hinge, but always to the point required by the designers. This reduces the inertia moments about the hinge and prevents flutter developing. Figure 8.12 illustrates some common methods of mass balancing. Figure 8.12 Longitudinal Control Control in pitch is usually obtained by elevator or by a moving tailplane, and the controls must be adequate to balance the aircraft throughout its speed range, at all permitted CG positions and configurations and to give an adequate rate of pitch for manoeuvres. Order: 5422 8 173 Flight Controls 8 Flight Controls Lateral Control Lateral control is by the ailerons, producing a rolling moment by increasing the lift on one wing and decreasing it on the other. Adverse Aileron Yaw The increased lift on the up-going wing gives an increase in the induced drag, whereas the reduced lift on the down-going wing gives a decrease in induced drag. The difference in drag on the two wings produces a yawing moment which is opposite to the rolling moment, that is, a roll to the left produces a yawing moment to the right. This is known as adverse yaw. Various methods have been adopted to reduce the adverse yaw, the main ones in use are: • Differential ailerons. The aileron linkage causes the up-going aileron to move through a larger angle than the down-going aileron. This increases the drag on the up aileron, and reduces it on the down aileron, and so reduces the difference in drag between the two wings. • Frise ailerons . The Frise aileron has an asymmetric leading edge, as illustrated in Figure 8.13. Figure 8.13 The leading edge of the up-going aileron protrudes below the lower surface of the wing, causing high drag. The leading edge of the down-going aileron remains shrouded and causes less drag. • Aileron-rudder coupling. In this system the aileron and rudder systems are interconnected, so that when the ailerons are deflected the rudder automatically moves to counter the adverse yaw. If roll spoilers are used to augment the roll rate obtained from the ailerons, they will reduce the adverse yaw, as the down-going wing will have an increase in drag due to the raised spoiler. Inboard Ailerons The ailerons are normally situated at the wing tip, to give the greatest moment for the force produced. However this also means that they cause the maximum twisting and bending loads on the wing. This can cause a loss of effectiveness or even reversal of the aileron. To reduce these effects the ailerons can be mounted further inboard. Alternatively, two sets of ailerons may be fitted, one set at the wing tip for use at low speeds when the forces involved are low, and one set inboard for use at high speeds when the forces are greater and could cause greater structural distortion. In summary, only the inboard ailerons are used when the flaps are retracted. ID: 5790 Flight Controls 8 174 8Flight Controls Flaperons The flaps and the ailerons both occupy part of the trailing edge of the wing. For good take- off and landing performance the flaps need to be as large as possible, and for a good rate of roll, the ailerons need to be as large as possible. However, the space available is limited, and one solution is to droop the ailerons symmetrically to augment the flap area. They then move differentially from the drooped position to give lateral control. Another system is to use the trailing edge moveable surfaces to perform the operation of both flaps and ailerons. Spoilers Spoilers may be used to give lateral control, in addition to, or instead of ailerons. The spoiler consists of part of the upper surface of the wing which can be raised. It is illustrated in Figure 8.2. Raising the spoiler will disturb the airflow over the wing and reduce the lift. To function as a lateral control, the spoiler is raised on the wing which is required to move downwards, and remains in its retracted position on the other wing. Unlike the aileron the spoiler cannot give an increase of lift, and so a roll manoeuvre controlled by spoilers will always give a net loss of lift. However the spoiler has several advantages compared to the aileron: • There is no adverse yaw. The raised spoiler increases the drag, and so the yaw is in the same direction as the roll. • Wing twisting is reduced. The loss of lift is distributed across the chord rather than being concentrated at the trailing edge. • At transonic speed its effectiveness is not reduced by shock induced separation. • It cannot develop flutter. • Spoilers do not occupy the trailing edge, which can then be utilized for flaps. Combined Aileron and Spoiler Controls On a few aircraft, lateral control is entirely by spoilers, but in the majority of applications the spoilers work in conjunction with the ailerons. Ailerons alone may be inadequate to achieve the required rate of roll at low speeds when the dynamic pressure is low, and at high speeds they may cause excessive wing twist, and begin to lose effectiveness if there is shock induced separation. Spoilers can be used to augment the rate of roll, but may not be required to operate over the whole speed range. On some aircraft the spoilers are only required at low speed, and this can be achieved by making them inoperative when the flaps are retracted. Movement of the cockpit control for lateral control is transmitted to a mixer unit which causes the spoiler to move up when the aileron moves up, but to remain retracted when the aileron moves down. Speed Brakes Speed brakes are devices to increase the drag of an aircraft when it is required to decelerate quickly or to descend rapidly. Rapid deceleration is required if turbulence is encountered at high speed, to reduce the speed to the Rough Air Speed as quickly as possible. A high rate of descent may be required to conform to Air Traffic Control instructions, and particularly if an emergency descent is required. Order: 5422 8 175 Flight Controls 8 Flight Controls Types of Speed Brake Ideally the speed brake should produce an increase in drag with no loss of lift or change in pitching moment. The fuselage mounted speed brake is best suited to meet these requirements. (Figure 8.14). Figure 8.14 Figure 2.13 However, as the wing mounted spoiler gives an increase in drag, it is convenient to use the spoilers as speed brakes in addition to their lateral control function. To operate them as speed brakes they are controlled by a separate lever in the cockpit and move symmetrically. Speed brakes are normally cleared for operation up to VMO but may “blow back” from the fully extended position at high speeds. Spoilers will still function as a roll control whilst being used as speed brakes, by moving differentially from the selected brake position. Effect of Speed Brakes on the Drag Curve The drag resulting from the operation of speed brakes is profile drag, and so will not only increase the total drag but will also decrease Velocity Minimum Drag, Vmd. This is advantageous at low speeds as the speed stability will be better than with the aircraft in the clean configuration. Ground Spoilers