=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

controls may be achieved: • Mechanically. The control surfaces are connected directly to the cockpit controls by a system of cables, rods, levers and chains. • Hydraulically. The control surfaces are moved by hydraulic power. The control valve may still be operated mechanically. • Electrically. Movement of the cockpit control sends an electrical signal to the control surface. The movement of the control may be achieved hydraulically. Figure 7.2 shows a manually operated elevator control system for a light aircraft, showing the main components required. Figure 7.2 Elevator control system Rearward movement of the control column causes upward movement of the elevator, causing the aircraft to pitch nose upwards, and vice versa. Control in roll is achieved by ailerons. Turning the control wheel to the right causes the right aileron to move up and the left aileron to move down, giving roll to the right. Control in yaw is given by the rudder. Moving the right rudder pedal forward causes the rudder to move to the right and causes the aircraft to yaw to the right. These movements are obtained by similar arrangements of cables, push-pull rods and chains for the elevator. Primary Controls Primary controls are controls which rotate the aircraft about its three axes and thereby cause a change in the aircraft’s flightpath and/or attitude Primary controls consist of elevator, rudder and ailerons plus roll control spoilers ID: 5790 Flight Control Systems 7 152 7Flight Control Systems The primary flying controls in a manually operated control system are reversible. That is, a force applied to the cockpit control will move the control surface, and also, a force applied to the control surface will cause the cockpit control to move. This means that the air pressure on the control surfaces is felt by the pilot through the cockpit controls. This is not the case if the controls are fully power operated. A power operated control is irreversible, that is, a load applied to the control surface cannot move the cockpit control, and the system has no natural feel. Because of this it is necessary to introduce feel to the system artificially. The artificial feel unit should increase the cockpit control load in proportion to the control deflection, and in proportion to the speed. [A manually operated trimming tab is irreversible, once its position has been set by the trim wheel, it cannot be moved from that position by a load on the trimming tab]. NOTE: Power assisted controls still retain their natural feel and, if the loads at the surface are large enough, are reversible. Control System Checks During servicing, and after any adjustments to the flying control system, various checks are required on the system. In some situations it may be necessary for the pilot to perform part of these checks. The main checks required on the system are for: • cable tension. • safety and locking of controls. • range of movement of controls (freedom and operation in the correct sense). • friction in the system. • backlash of the system. Cable Tension It is important to have the correct tension in the control cables. If the tension is too low, the cables will be loose, permitting excessive cable movement, and if the tension is too high, the controls will be too stiff to move. Cable tension is adjusted by means of turnbuckles, and measured with a tensiometer. Figure 7.3 Barrel type turnbuckle Figure 7.3 illustrates a typical turnbuckle. It consists of a central barrel, and two end fittings, to which are attached the ends of the cable. The tension of the cable is measured with a tensiometer. An illustration of a simple tensiometer is shown in Figure 7.4. Order: 5422 7 153 Flight Control Systems 7 Flight Control Systems Figure 7.4 Simple tensiometer Temperature Compensation When checking the tension of the cable, allowance should be made for the temperature, and the correct tension figure used appropriate to the ambient temperature. Changes of temperature will affect the length of the cables and also of the airframe structure, but as they are made of different materials the rate of expansion will be different. For a normal aluminium alloy airframe structure with steel control cables, an increase in temperature will cause the aluminium alloy to expand more than the steel cables and so cause an increase in cable tension. On some aircraft a temperature compensator is fitted in the control system. This automatically maintains the correct tension if temperature changes. Figure 7.5 Temperature compensator ID: 5790 Flight Control Systems 7 154 7Flight Control Systems Safety and Locking After the tension has been correctly set, the turnbuckle must be checked to safety. This means that sufficient thread must be engaged between the end fittings and the central portion of the turnbuckle to take the load which will be placed on the cable. To enable this to be done, inspection holes are provided in the turnbuckle. To be ‘in safety’ the inspection hole must be completely blocked by the thread of the end fitting. This is verified by attempting to pass a hardened pin through the inspection hole. Some types of turnbuckle are not provided with inspection holes, and these should be checked for safety by seeing that not more than three threads of the end fitting are visible outside the barrel. When the tension has been correctly set and the turnbuckle is ‘in safety’ it must be locked to prevent any change of tension occurring during operation of the control system. Vibration could cause the barrel of the turnbuckle to rotate and allow the cable tension to decrease. The turnbuckle must be locked to prevent any rotation of the barrel relating to the end fittings. Figure 7.6 Wire locked turnbuckle The most commonly used method of locking is by locking wire, but many other approved systems of locking are in use, such as locking clips, locking plates etc. Range of Control Movement The movement of each control surface to either side of its neutral position, is laid down so that it can achieve the required control over the full range of operating conditions. The movement is not necessarily the same each side of neutral, for example, an elevator usually has a greater deflection upward than downward. The limit of movement of the control surface is determined by a mechanical stop. A stop which limits the movement of the control surface is called a primary stop. A stop which limits the movement of the control column or rudder pedals is called a secondary stop; when the primary stop is closed there will be a small clearance at the secondary stop. Control System Friction The friction in the control system will determine the force required to move the controls when the aircraft is stationary. In flight the ‘stick forces’ will increase due to the air loads on the control surfaces. If the friction loads are too high, the feel of the controls with changing airspeed will be distorted. The friction in the control system is measured by attaching a spring balance to the control and moving it through its full travel. Excessive friction in the controls may be due to over-tensioned cables or lack of oil on the bearings. Order: 5422 7 155 Flight Control Systems 7 Flight Control Systems Backlash Control systems should be free of backlash. Backlash is free or ineffective movement of the cockpit control when the direction of movement is reversed. It may indicate worn or incorrect components in the control system. Control Locks When an aircraft is parked in the open, strong or gusty winds could blow the controls about against their stops with sufficient force to cause mechanical damage. To prevent this occurring, control locks are fitted. These may be external or internal and may be fitted to the control surface or to the cockpit control. If they are fitted to the cockpit control they may be arranged so that it is impossible to open the throttle until the control locks are removed. It should be noted that with servo operated control surfaces, movement of the cockpit controls is possible with external control locks in position. Similarly with a spring tab assisted control, some movement of the cockpit control would be possible with external locks fitted, but the control would feel very stiff. Duplicate Inspection of Controls Because of the vital importance of the control system a procedure for duplication of inspection of the control system is laid down in maintenance regulations. It requires that if the control system is disturbed in any way, the system shall be inspected separately by two qualified persons before the aircraft is permitted to fly. In some circumstances the second of these persons may be the pilot. Duplicate inspection procedures are given at Appendix A. Take-off Configuration Warning The take-off configuration warning is armed when the aircraft is on the ground and the forward thrust levers are advanced for take-off. An intermittent take-off warning sounds if some or all of the following conditions exist: • The stabilizer trim is outside