=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

8 175 Flight Controls 8 Flight Controls Types of Speed Brake Ideally the speed brake should produce an increase in drag with no loss of lift or change in pitching moment. The fuselage mounted speed brake is best suited to meet these requirements. (Figure 8.14). Figure 8.14 Figure 2.13 However, as the wing mounted spoiler gives an increase in drag, it is convenient to use the spoilers as speed brakes in addition to their lateral control function. To operate them as speed brakes they are controlled by a separate lever in the cockpit and move symmetrically. Speed brakes are normally cleared for operation up to VMO but may “blow back” from the fully extended position at high speeds. Spoilers will still function as a roll control whilst being used as speed brakes, by moving differentially from the selected brake position. Effect of Speed Brakes on the Drag Curve The drag resulting from the operation of speed brakes is profile drag, and so will not only increase the total drag but will also decrease Velocity Minimum Drag, Vmd. This is advantageous at low speeds as the speed stability will be better than with the aircraft in the clean configuration. Ground Spoilers (Lift Dumpers) During the landing run the decelerating force is given by the aerodynamic drag and the drag of the wheel brakes. The wheel brake drag depends on the weight on the wheels, but this will be reduced by any lift that the wing is producing. The wing lift can be reduced by operating the wing spoilers. Both the brake drag and the aerodynamic drag are therefore increased, and the landing run reduced. On many aircraft types, additional spoilers are provided for use on the ground. These ground spoilers are made inoperative in flight by a switch on the undercarriage leg which is operated by the extension of the leg after take-off. Directional Control Control in yaw is obtained by the rudder. The rudder is required to: • maintain directional control with asymmetric power • correct for crosswinds on take-off and landing • correct for adverse yaw • recover from a spin • correct for changes in propeller torque on single-engine aircraft ID: 5790 Flight Controls 8 176 8Flight Controls Excessive Rudder Deflection With a simple control system, full rudder pedal movement will provide full rudder deflection. With high speed aircraft, while it is necessary to have large rudder deflections available at low speed, when flying at high speed, full rudder deflection would cause excessive loads on the structure. There are two main systems used to prevent excessive rudder deflection. Rudder Ratio Changing and Variable Stop Systems Rudder ratio changing In this system the rudder pedals move through their full range at all speeds but the rudder deflection reduces with increasing IAS. Variable stop systems Movement of the rudder is directly proportional to pedal travel. The movement of both pedals and rudder are reduced with increasing IAS. The rudder pedal travel (arc of movement) reduces with increasing IAS, therefore the travel of the rudder is reduced. This will usually begin at 165 kt. Trimming An aeroplane is trimmed when it will maintain its attitude and speed without the pilot having to apply any load to the cockpit controls. If it necessary for a control surface to be deflected to maintain balance of the aircraft, the pilot will need to apply a force to the cockpit control to hold the surface in its deflected position. This force may be reduced to zero by operation of the trim controls. The aircraft may need to be trimmed in pitch as a result of: • changes of speed • changes of power • varying CG positions Trimming in yaw will be needed: • on a multi-engine aircraft if there is asymmetric power • as a result of changes in propeller torque Trimming in roll is less likely to be needed, but could be required if the configuration is asymmetric, or if there is a lateral displacement of the CG. Methods of Trimming Various methods of trimming are in use, the main ones are: • the trimming tab • variable incidence tailplane • spring bias • CG adjustment • adjustment of the artificial feel unit Order: 5422 8 177 Flight Controls 8 Flight Controls Trimming Tab The trimming tab is a small adjustable surface set into the trailing edge of a main control surface. Its deflection is controlled by a trim wheel or switch in the cockpit, usually arranged to operate in an instinctive sense. To maintain the primary control surface in its required position, the tab is moved in the opposite direction to the control surface, until the tab hinge moment balances the control surface hinge moment. Figure 8.15 Fixed Tabs Some trimming tabs are not adjustable in flight, but can be adjusted on the ground, to correct a permanent out of trim condition. They are usually found on ailerons. They operate in the same manner as the adjustable tabs. Variable Incidence Tailplane This system of trimming may be used on manually operated and power operated tailplane- elevator controls. In the manual system the load on the elevator is felt on the control column, but the load on the tailplane is not. To trim, the tailplane incidence is adjusted by the trim wheel, until the total tailplane and elevator load with the elevator free, is equal to the balancing load required. As an alternative to the trim wheel the variable incidence tailplane may be operated by trim switches which operate in pairs. These are usually on the control wheel and there may be a pair of levers mounted on the centre console. One switch or lever controls the power, the other controls the direction of movement of the trimming device. Both must be moved simultaneously in order to trim the aircraft. This is to prevent inadvertent operation of the longitudinal trim system known as ‘Trim-runaway’. ID: 5790 Flight Controls 8 178 8Flight Controls Figure 8.16 Controls for variable incidence tailplane Z Z Figure 8.17 Order: 5422 8 179 Flight Controls 8 Flight Controls The main advantages of this system are: • the drag is less in the trimmed state, as the aerofoil is more streamlined • trimming does not reduce the range of pitch control, as the elevator is approximately neutral when the aircraft is trimmed. In a power control system the load on the elevator is not felt on the cockpit control, but trimming by adjusting the tailplane incidence may still be used as the above advantages are still obtained. The amount of trim required will depend on the CG position, and recommended stabilizer settings will be given in the aircraft Flight Manual. It is important that these are correctly set before take-off, as incorrect settings could give either an excessive rate of pitch when the aircraft is rotated, leading to possible tail strikes, or very heavy stick forces on rotation, leading to increased take-off distances required. Spring Bias In the spring bias trim system, an adjustable spring force is used to replace the pilot’s holding load. No tab is required for this system. CG Adjustment If the flying controls are used for trimming, this results in an increase of drag due to the deflected surfaces. The out of balance pitching moment can be reduced by moving the CG nearer to the centre of pressure, thus reducing the balancing load required and therefore the drag associated with it. This will give an increase of cruise range. CG movement is usually achieved by transferring fuel between tanks at the nose and tail of the aircraft. Artificial Feel Trim If the flying controls are power operated, there is no feedback of the load on the control surface to the cockpit control. The feel on the controls has to be created artificially. When a control surface is moved the artificial feel unit provides a force to resist the movement of cockpit control. To remove this force (i.e. to trim) the datum of the feel unit can be adjusted so that it no longer gives any load. ID: 5790 Flight Controls 8 180 8Flight Controls Mach Trim The wing centre of pressure moves rearward as aircraft approach high subsonic speed and this produces large nose down pitching moments known as “tuck under” It is essential that the aircraft is fitted with an automatic system of correcting this change in attitude. This system is known as “mach trim” and is designed so that it will operate whether or not the autopilot or some other method of automatic flight control is engaged. the system senses speed increases above a datum mach number and, through a servo system produces the appropriate movement of the horizontal stabilizer or a centre of gravity shift to maintain the trimmed flight position. See Figure 8.18. Figure 8.18 Mach trim by fuel transfer Centre of pressure Centre of gravity Rear trim tank Centre of pressure Centre of gravity Front trim tank Rear trim tank Front trim tank Fuel transfer to balance Figure 2.19 Mach Trim