=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

Hydraulics 2 Basic Hydraulics Hydraulic Accumulators An accumulator is fitted: • to store hydraulic fluid under pressure. • to dampen pressure fluctuations. • to allow for thermal expansion. • to provide an emergency supply of fluid to the system in the event of pump failure. • to prolong the period between cut-out and cut-in time of the ACOV and so reduce the wear on the pump. • to provide the initial fluid when a selection is made and the pump is cut-out. Figure 2.16 Hydraulic accumulators Figure 1.14 Hydraulic Accumulators A non-return valve fitted upstream of an accumulator, prevents fluid from being discharged back to the reservoir. Two different types of accumulator are illustrated in Figure 2.16 but many other types are used. The accumulators shown are the most commonly used. The gas side of the accumulator is charged to a predetermined pressure with air or nitrogen. As hydraulic pressure builds up in the system, the gas is compressed until fluid and gas pressures equalize at normal system pressure. At this point the pump commences to idle, and system pressure is maintained by the accumulator. If a service is selected, a supply of fluid under pressure is available until pressure drops sufficiently to bring the pump on line. The initial gas charge of the accumulator is greater than the pressure required to operate any service, and the fluid volume is usually sufficiently large to operate any service once; except that brake accumulators permit a guaranteed number of brake applications, or the ability to stop the aircraft during a rejected take-off. ID: 5790 Basic Hydraulics 2 64 2Basic Hydraulics The gas side of an accumulator is normally inflated through a charging valve, which may be attached directly to the accumulator, or installed on a remote ground servicing panel and connected to the accumulator by means of a pipeline. The charging valve usually takes the form of a non-return valve, which may be depressed by means of a plunger in order to relieve excessive pressure. To pre-charge or check, the gas pressure, the system pressure should be released (off loaded). This will allow the gas pressure to move the floating piston to the bottom of the accumulator. Incorrect pre-charge pressure of the main accumulator can cause the ACOV to cut in and out too frequently. This may cause rapid fluctuations of system pressure which can be felt and heard as ‘hammering’ in the system. Figure 2.17 Hydraulic actuators Hydraulic Jacks (Actuators) Purpose: To convert fluid flow into linear or rotary motion, see Figure 2.17. Construction: They vary in size and construction depending on the operating loads, but all consist of: An outer cylinder in which slides a piston and seal assembly. Attached to the piston is a piston rod (or ram) which passes through a gland seal fitted into the end of the cylinder. Types of Jacks (Actuators). Three types of jack are used for different purposes in an aircraft system. Details of a particular jack should be obtained from the relevant maintenance manual. Single Acting. Is normally used as a locking device, the lock being engaged by spring pressure and released by hydraulic pressure. A typical application is a landing gear downlock. Double Acting Unbalanced. Is used in most aircraft systems. Because of the presence of the piston rod the area of the top of the piston is greater than the area under it. Consequently, more force can be applied during extension of the piston rod. Therefore, the operation which offers the greater resistance is carried out in the direction in which the piston rod extends; for example, in raising the landing gear. Differential Areas. It should be noted that the area of the upper side of the piston is greater than the area of the lower side by the amount equal to the area of the piston rod; therefore the force acting on it will be greater on the larger area. Order: 5422 2 65 Basic Hydraulics 2 Basic Hydraulics Double Acting Balanced Jack. A balanced actuator, in which equal force can be applied to both sides of the piston, is often used in applications such as nose wheel steering and flying control boost systems. Either one or both sides of the piston rod may be connected to a mechanism. Hydraulic Lock When fluid is trapped between the piston of the jack and a non-return valve, a “hydraulic lock” is said to be formed. Because the fluid is incompressible and is unable to flow through the system, the piston cannot move even if a load is applied to it and is therefore locked in its position. Hydraulic Motors These are a form of rotary actuator, and are sometimes connected through gearing to operate a screw jack, or to drive generators or pumps. In some aircraft they are used for driving a hydraulic pump unit, thus enabling power to be transferred from one hydraulic system to another without transferring fluid. The construction of a hydraulic motor is generally similar to the construction of a variable volume multi-piston pump. The speed of a hydraulic motor is dependent on the flow rate of oil into it. Pressure Control Maximum system pressure is often controlled by adjustment of the main engine-driven pump, but a number of other components are used to maintain or limit fluid pressures in various parts of a hydraulic system. (Typical system pressure; small aircraft 1500 psi, large aircraft 3000 psi). Relief valves are used for: • expansion (thermal relief). • ultimate system protection (full flow relief). • mechanical overload protection (flap relief). All act as safety devices to relieve excess pressure in the system back to reservoir. In the case of a flap relief valve, this valve is fitted to prevent excessive air loads damaging the flaps or flap attachments by allowing the flaps to blow back to the ‘UP’ position if the air loads are excessive, i.e. flaps selected ‘down’ at too high an airspeed. Thermal relief valves are usually fitted into lines isolated by NRVs or selectors and are adjusted to blow off at a pressure slightly higher than normal system pressure, typically 10% In some systems a full flow relief valve or high pressure relief valve is fitted downstream of the pump to bypass full pump output to the reservoir in the event of failure of the cut-out valve or blockage elsewhere in the system. Pressure Maintaining Valves. A pressure maintaining valve, or priority valve, is basically a relief valve which maintains the pressure in a primary service at a value suitable for operation of that service, regardless of secondary service requirements. ID: 5790 Basic Hydraulics 2 66 2Basic Hydraulics Figure 2.18 Pressure maintaining valvesFigure 1.17 Pressure Maintaining Valves. Pressure Reducing Valves . A pressure reducing valve is often used to reduce main system pressure to a value suitable for operation of a service such as the wheel brakes. Figure 2.19 Pressure reducing valve Figure 1.18 Pressure Reducing Valve Brake Control Valves. A brake control valve is essentially a variable pressure reducing valve, which controls pressure in the brake system according to the position of the pilot’s brake pedals, the anti-skid system and autobrake selections as required. Order: 5422 2 67 Basic Hydraulics 2 Basic Hydraulics Flow Control The components described in this paragraph are used to control the flow of fluid to the various services operated by the hydraulic system. Non-return Valves. The most common device used to control the flow of fluid is the non- return valve, which permits full flow in one direction, but blocks flow in the opposite direction (in a similar way to a diode in electrical circuits). Simple ball-type non-return valves are included in Figure 2.20. When a non-return valve is used as a separate component, the direction of flow is indicated by an arrow moulded on the casing, in order to prevent incorrect installation. This valve is also known as a One Way Check valve or Non-reversible valve. Figure 2.20 A simple non-return valve One Way Restrictor Valves (or choke). A restrictor valve may be similar in construction to a non-return valve, but a restrictor valve is designed to permit limited flow in one direction and full flow in the other direction; the restriction is usually of fixed size, as shown in Figure 2.21. A restrictor valve is used in a number of locations in order to limit the speed of operation of an actuator in one direction only. It may, for instance, be used to slow down flap retraction or landing gear extension (up line for both). Figure 2.21 Restrictor valve ID: 5790 Basic Hydraulics 2 68 2Basic Hydraulics Selector Valves. Selector valves are used to direct fluid to the appropriate side of a jack and connect the other side to return. Some are manually operated but on large transport aircraft they are operated remotely either mechanically or electrically. Selectors are of two main types open centre or closed centre and may be rotary or linear in construction. Rotary Selectors. Different types of rotary selectors are used depending on