=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

air is ducted to the wings and tail units and passes into the gap, providing sufficient heat in the outer skin of the leading edge to melt ice already formed and prevent further ice formation. The air is exhausted to atmosphere through outlets in the skin surfaces and also, in some cases, in the tips of wings and tail units. The temperature of the air within the ducting and leading edge sections is controlled by a shutter or butterfly type valve system, the operation of which depends on the type of heating system employed. A gas turbine engine presents a critical icing problem, and therefore requires protection against ice formation particularly at the air intake, nose bullet or fairing and inlet guide vanes. Icing of these regions can considerably restrict the airflow causing a loss in performance and, furthermore, cause damage to the compressor as a result of ice breaking away and being ingested by the compressor. There are two thermal systems in use for air intake de/anti-icing; a hot air bleed system and an electrical resistance heating system, and although the latter is usually chosen for turbo- propeller engines to provide protection for the propeller, there are some examples where both systems are used in combination. ID: 5790 Ice and Rain Protection 12 248 12Ice and Rain Protection Air Supplies. There are several methods by which the heated air can be supplied and these include bleeding of air from a turbine engine compressor, heating of ram air by passing it through a heat exchanger located in an engine exhaust gas system, and combustion heating of ram air. In a compressor bleed system the hot air is tapped directly from a compressor stage, and after mixing with a supply of cool air in a mixing chamber it passes into the main ducting. In some systems, equipment, e.g. safety shut-off valves, is provided to ensure that an air mass flow sufficient for all de-icing requirements is supplied within pressure limits acceptable to duct and structural limitations. Temp Figure 1.12. A Heat Exchange System.Figure 12.11 A heat exchange system The heat exchanger method of supplying warm air is employed in some types of aircraft powered by turbo-propeller engines. The heat exchanger unit is positioned so that exhaust gases can be diverted to pass between tubes through which outside air enters the main supply ducts. The supply of exhaust gases is usually regulated by a device such as a thermostatically controlled flap fitted in the ducting between the exhaust unit and the heat exchanger. In a combustion heating system ram air is passed through a cylindrical jacket enclosing a sealed chamber in which a fuel/air mixture is burned, and is heated by contact with the chamber walls. Air for combustion is derived from a separate air intake and is supplied to the chamber by means of a blower. Temperature Control. The control of the air temperature within ducting and leading edge sections is an important aspect of thermal de-icing system operation and the methods adopted depend on the type of system. Order: 5422 12 249 Ice and Rain Protection 12 Ice and Rain Protection In a typical compressor bleed system, control is effected by temperature sensing units which are located at various points in the leading edge ducting and by valves in the main air supply ducting. The sensing units and valves are electrically interconnected so that the valves are automatically positioned to regulate the flow of heated air to the system, thus maintaining the temperature within a predetermined range. Indications of air temperature conditions are provided by resistance type temperature sensing elements and indicators, temperature sensitive switches and overheat warning lights. On some aircraft the electrical supplies to the valves are interrupted by landing gear controlled relays when the aircraft is on the ground. Under these conditions, valve operation is accomplished by holding the system control switch to a ‘TEST’ position. Figure 1.11. Areas Heated by ‘Anti-Icing’ Air.Figure 12.12 Areas heated by ‘anti-icing’ air When heat exchangers are employed, temperature control is usually obtained by the use of adjustable flaps and valves to decrease or increase the supply of heating and cooling air passed across the exchangers. The method of controlling the flaps and valves varies with different aircraft, but a typical system incorporates an electric actuator, which is operated automatically by an inching device controlled by a temperature sensing element fitted in the duct on the warm air outlet side of the heat exchanger. In some systems, actuators are directly controlled by thermal switches, so that the flaps or valves are automatically closed when a predetermined temperature is reached. Indications of air temperature conditions are provided by resistance type temperature sensing elements and indicators, temperature sensitive switches and overheat warning lights. In systems incorporating combustion heaters, the temperature is usually controlled by thermal cyclic switches located in the heater outlet ducts, so that when the temperature reaches a predetermined maximum the fuel supply to the heaters is automatically switched off. ID: 5790 Ice and Rain Protection 12 250 12Ice and Rain Protection In an engine hot air system the air is bled from the compressor and is fed via ducting into the air intake nose cowl, through the inlet guide vanes of the engine and also, in some engines, through the nose bullet. After circulating the intake cowl and guide vanes, the air is exhausted either to atmosphere or into the engine air intake. The flow of hot air is regulated by electrically operated control valves which are actuated by control switches on a cockpit panel. An air temperature control system is not usually provided in a hot air system. Electrical Heating System. In an electrical heating system, heating elements either of resistance wire or sprayed metal, are bonded to the air intake structure. The power supply required for heating is normally three-phase alternating current. The arrangement adopted in a widely used turbo-propeller engine is illustrated in Figure 12.13 as an example. The elements are of the resistance wire type and are formed into an overshoe which is bonded around the leading edge of the air intake cowl and also around the oil cooler air intake. Both anti-icing and de-icing techniques are employed by using continuously heated and intermittently heated elements respectively. The elements are sandwiched between layers of glass cloth impregnated with resin. In some systems the elements may be sandwiched between layers of rubber. The outer surfaces are, in all cases, suitably protected against erosion by rain, and the effect of oils, greases, etc. The power supply is fed directly to the continuously heated elements, and via a cyclic time switch unit to the intermittently heated elements and to the propeller blade elements. The cyclic time switch units control the application of current in selected time sequences compatible with prevailing outside air temperature conditions and severity of icing. The time sequences which may be selected vary between systems. Heater Mats Glass Cloth Layers Electrical Elements Intermittently Heated Elements Continuously Heated Elements Figure 12.13 Heater Mats For the system shown in Figure 12.13 the sequences are ‘Fast’, giving one complete cycle (heat on/heat off) of 2 minutes at outside air temperatures between -6°C and +10°C, and ‘Slow’, giving one complete cycle of 6 minutes at outside air temperatures below -6°C. An indicator light and, in some cases, an ammeter, is provided on the appropriate cockpit control panel to indicate correct functioning of the time switch circuit. Order: 5422 12 251 Ice and Rain Protection 12 Ice and Rain Protection Fluid Systems This system prevents the adhesion of ice on surfaces by pumping freezing point depressant fluid (FPD) to panels in the leading edge of the aerofoil, and allowing the fluid to be carried over the surface by air movement. The fluid is supplied from the storage tank to the pump through an integral filter. The pump has a single inlet and a number of delivery outlets to feed the distributors on the aerofoil leading edges. A diagrammatic layout is shown in Figure 12.14. The pump consists of a main casting which incorporates a pump body, a filter chamber, and a gear casing. When the pump is incorporated in a system, the pump body and the filter chamber are flooded with de-icing fluid which acts as a lubricant. To protect the pump and the system from damage due to pipe blockage etc. the pump incorporates a safety device which relieves abnormal pressure by reducing the flow. There are two types of distributor for use with the system, i.e. strip and panel. The panel distributors cover a large area of the aerofoil leading edge, and are more economical and efficient than strip distributors. They have the disadvantage of not being suitable for surfaces with double curvature, e.g. fins where the strip distributor has to be used. The panel distributor is fitted over, or let into the leading edges of the mainplanes and tailplane. It consists of a porous outer panel, a microporous sheet, and a back plate. The porous panel extends beyond