=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

down to below approximately 20 mph, it is assumed then that there is no further danger of skidding. Order: 5422 6 135 Aircraft Brakes 6 Aircraft Brakes Typical Aircraft Wheel Brake System The brakes are powered by one of the aircraft hydraulic power systems (system 1) with automatic switch over to an alternate system (system 2) in the event of low system 1 pressure. When normal and alternate brake hydraulic sources are lost, an accumulator is automatically selected to maintain parking brake pressure. Anti-skid Protection The anti-skid valves receive hydraulic pressure from the normal brake metering valves or the autobrake valves with the anti-skid control unit providing electrical signals to the anti-skid valves to control braking during skid conditions. Wheel speed transducers mounted in the axle transmit wheel speed inputs to the anti-skid control unit. Each wheel is provided individually with anti-skid protection when normal brakes are operative. When skidding is initially detected, the anti-skid controller commands the respective anti-skid valve to reduce brake pressure which protects the wheel from further skidding. Touchdown braking protection is provided by comparing wheel speed to IRS (inertial reference system) ground speed. During alternate brake operation anti-skid protection is provided to wheel pairs rather than individual wheels. Torque Limiting A brake torque sensor is provided at each wheel to detect excessive torque during braking to prevent damage to the landing gear (more a problem with CARBON brakes). When excessive torque stress is detected, a signal is sent to the anti-skid valve and brake pressure to that wheel is released. ID: 5790 Aircraft Brakes 6 136 6Aircraft Brakes Figure 6.4 Typical brake and anti-skid system Autobrakes This system permits automatic braking when using the normal brake system during landing rollout or during a rejected take-off (RTO). There are a number of levels of operation of the autobrake system: Order: 5422 6 137 Aircraft Brakes 6 Aircraft Brakes Off Armed The system is ready for use but certain conditions have to be met before the system will operate automatically. Activated A system that is armed may become activated once conditions have been met. It may be activated in a number of ways depending in aircraft type. Operative A system is operative if it is working as intended. An inoperative system will not accomplish its intended purpose and is not considered to be functioning correctly. The autobrake system is not available when using the alternate brake system. Depending on the aircraft, three or five landing deceleration rates may be selected. Anti-skid protection is provided during autobrake operation. Landing autobrakes are armed by selecting one of the deceleration rates on the autobrake selector. On touchdown with ground mode and wheel spin up sensed the brakes will be automatically applied and will provide braking to a complete stop or until the autobrakes are disarmed. The deceleration rate may be changed during autobrake operation without disarming by rotating the selector. With RTO selected, maximum brake pressure will be applied automatically when all thrust levers are closed at ground speeds above 85 knots. Below 85 knots autobrakes are not activated. The landing autobrakes system disarms immediately if a fault occurs when the system is armed, the selector will move to the disarm position and a warning caption will be displayed. Disarming will also occur if any of the following crew actions are taken during autobrake operation: • Manual braking. • Advancing any thrust lever after landing. • Moving the speed brake lever to the DN (down) detent after speed brakes have been deployed on the ground. • Moving the autobrake selector to Disarm or Off. The autobrakes are normally disarmed by the non-handling pilot or flight engineer as the aircraft speed reduces to approximately 20 knots. Parking Brake The parking brake handle operates a shut-off valve in the return line to the reservoir from the anti-skid valves. To apply the parking brake depress the foot pedals, apply the parking brake lever, then release the foot pedals. Hydraulic pressure is now trapped in the brakes because the return line from the anti-skid valves is closed. This will be capable of maintaining the brakes ‘on‘ for overnight parking if required. Automatic Brake Application on Undercarriage Retraction Reduced hydraulic pressure is delivered to the wheel brakes as the undercarriages are retracted. This will bring the wheels to a stop and eliminate the adverse effects of gyroscopic forces produced by the spinning wheels. ID: 5790 Aircraft Brakes 6 138 6Aircraft Brakes Figure 6.5 Order: 5422 6 139 Aircraft Brakes 6 Aircraft Brakes Brake Kinetic Energy Graph During the application of brakes, a considerable amount of energy is absorbed. This energy is released in the form of heat which must be dissipated. The brake packs, wheel assemblies and tyres are capable of absorbing so much heat and no more before they fail. Some method of determining the amount of energy absorbed will facilitate decisions regarding precautions to be taken after an aborted take-off, a landing, or simply moving the aircraft around the airfield. One such method is the brake kinetic energy graph, Figure 6.6. The graph is entered with an all up weight and a brake application speed and then factored for head or tailwind component, number of serviceable reversers and airfield altitude. The end result is the amount of kinetic energy absorbed, but more importantly, three zones into which the situation has fallen, each of which will determine the course of action to be taken. Figure 6.7 is a reproduction from an aircraft operations manual which outlines the three zones and the drills to be carried out in the event of the kinetic energy in the brakes being above a certain level. ID: 5790 Aircraft Brakes 6 140 6Aircraft Brakes Figure 6.6 A brake kinetic energy graph BRAKE KINETIC ENERGY (FT LB/10 ) & COOLING TIME Corrections 1. Reverse thrust 2. For every 20°C ambient temperature below 15A + 20°C - subtract 1.0 KE 3. After landing only when constant full maxaret braking is used on a dry runway - add 2.0 KE 4. After aborted take-off only add 5.0 KE to allow for residual KE in brakes when leaving c hocks 5. Non-standard configurations After flaps 35°/slats out landing - add 2.0 K E After flapless landing - add 10.00 KE After slatless landing - add 2.0 KE After flapless accelerate - stop - add 3.0 KE After slatless - stop - add 2.0 KE Note 1: If take-off is aborted before reading is obtained on the ASI, use afigure of 60 knots to calculate brake cooling time. Note 2: If aircraft returns to the ramp with out starting a take-off run, use a figure of 4 0 knots to calculate brake cooling time. Figure 4.6 A Brake Kinetic Energy Graph Order: 5422 6 141 Aircraft Brakes 6 Aircraft Brakes Figure 6.7 The normal, caution and danger zones ZONES Danger Zone - (Above 29 KE) 1. Clear runway as soon as possible. Alert fire services. 2. U se minimum necessary footbrake pressure. Tyres will probably deflate. 3. Parking brake must not be used unless essential. 4. Shut down engines not required. 5. If ty res remain inflated, they must be approached with caution from front or rear. 6. Unless a brak e/wheel assembly is in flames, allow brakes to cool without applying extinguishant. 7. If a brak e/wheel assembly is on fire, apply dry powder extinguishant - and retire from the vicinity for at least 15 minutes. 8. Allow a cooling period of 2 to 3 hours, unless cooling air is used. Wheels and tyres must be changed. Caution Zone - (17 to 29 KE) 1. Park the aircraft but do not apply parking brake. 2. Do not approach wheel assembly for at least 30 minutes. 3. B efore take-off, check the brake wheel assem bly for damage and apply brake pressure to check to brake seal leaks. 4. Operate the brak es and check that pressures are maintained. 5. A llow brake cooling time of 5 minutes for each 1.0 KE in excess of 5.0 KE. Normal Zone - (5 to 17.0 KE) 1. A llow brake cooling time of 5 minutes for each 1.0 KE in excess of 5.0 KE. Below 5 KE. 1. No brake coo ling time necessary. 2. No special instructions. ID: 5790 Aircraft Brakes 6 142 6Aircraft Brakes Brake Temperature Indicators Larger aircraft types, (B747, B777, A340, A380 etc.) may be fitted with Brake Temperature Indicators. Sensors are arranged to sample the temperature of the brakes of each individual wheel. An indicator can be used to display the temperature of each pair of wheels as selected on the system control panel. The brake temperatures are constantly monitored by the system, if the temperature of any brake assembly rises above a predetermined level then a “HIGH TEMP” indicator light illuminates. Switch selection on the control panel will now enable the operator to locate the wheel brake or brakes which are triggering the alarm. Should any brake temperature go above that level at which the High Temp warning light illuminates,