=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78 Answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86 ID: 5790 Basic Hydraulics 2 46 2Basic Hydraulics Order: 5422 2 47 Basic Hydraulics 2 Basic Hydraulics Introduction Hydraulics is the science relating to the behaviour of liquids under various conditions and in aircraft the hydraulic system provides a means of operating large and remote components that it would not be possible to operate satisfactorily by other means. Aircraft systems provide a means of power transmission through the medium of hydraulics i.e. transmission of power through an incompressible fluid via pipelines and actuators. Hydraulic systems provide the power for the operation of components such as landing gear, flaps, flight controls, wheel brakes, windshield wipers and other systems that require high power, accurate control and rapid response rates. Hydrostatic Pressure Figure 2.1 For an open container, the pressure exerted by the fluid is dependent only on the height of fluid. Hence, varying containers of different sizes will give the same pressure if they contain the same height of fluid. Pascal’s Law Pascal was a 17th century mathematician who stated that: “If a force is applied to a liquid in a confined space, then this force will be felt equally in all directions”. ID: 5790 Basic Hydraulics 2 48 2Basic Hydraulics Figure 2.2 The force employed when a hydraulic system is operated is caused by “Pressure”. This force is not delivered by the hydraulic pump. Hydraulic pressure is created only when an attempt is made to compress fluids, therefore, if a flow of oil is pumped through an open- ended tube there will be no pressure, but, if the end of the tube is blocked and the oil cannot escape, pressure will at once build up. Without some form of restriction there can be no pressure. FORCE = P RESSURE × AREA PRESSURE = F ORCE PER UNIT AREA = FORCE AREA FORCE = T OTAL LOAD AVAILABLE Bramah’s Press This principle was discovered by Joseph Bramah (1749 - 1814) who invented a hydraulic press and, in doing so, observed two facts: • the smaller the area under load, the greater the pressure generated. • the larger the area under pressure, the greater will be the load available. Refer to Figure 2.3. If a force of 1000 N is applied to piston “A”, whose area is 0.002 m² it will produce a pressure of 500 kPa in the fluid. If piston “B” has an area of 0.004 m² it will support a load of 0.004 m2 × 500 kPa = 2000 N (i.e. F = P × A). Order: 5422 2 49 Basic Hydraulics 2 Basic Hydraulics Figure 2.3 The Bramah press The WORK DONE by a machine = FORCE applied × DISTANCE moved Then if piston “A” is moved through a distance of 0.6 m, and since work done in the system must be constant, (assuming no frictional losses), then: FORCE × DISTANCE (piston A) = FORCE × DISTANCE (piston B) 1000 × 0.6 = 2000 × the distance moved by piston ‘B’ so the distance moved by piston ‘B’ = 0.3 m (1000 × 0.6 = 600) = (2000 × 0.3 = 600 joules) Thus, for a given fluid pressure the force produced can be varied by adjusting the piston area and the resultant linear motion will vary in inverse proportion to the area. This would constitute a Passive Hydraulic System where a force is applied to a piston (piston A) only when it is desired to move the load (piston B). Thereby only generating pressure when it is required rather than generating and maintaining pressure all of the time and only using it when something needs to be moved. Passive Hydraulic System A passive hydraulic system is one in which there is no pump and pressure is only produced when a force is applied to a piston. A good example of this would be a light aircraft braking system which has a master cylinder to generate the pressure when the brake pedal is pressed, and a slave cylinder to ‘do the work’ of moving a piston and applying the brakes. See Figure 2.4. ID: 5790 Basic Hydraulics 2 50 2Basic Hydraulics Figure 2.4 A typical light aircraft braking system (only one brake shown) Active Hydraulic Systems A pump is required to deliver a flow of fluid into the system and some form of restriction is required to obtain pressure. In hydraulic systems this restriction is provided by movable pistons which travel backwards and forwards in cylinders, these assemblies being known as hydraulic jacks or actuators. As the power required for operating different services, such as: undercarriage, flaps, spoilers, nose wheel steering, Power Flying Control units etc. varies according to their size and loading, a “gearing” effect must be provided and this is easily achieved by varying the size of the actuator pistons, while the hydraulic pressure remains constant. Hydraulic Fluids and Pipelines The efficiency of a hydraulic system is governed by the resistance to motion encountered by the fluid and, for all practical purposes, hydraulic fluids are considered to be incompressible except at high pressures, i.e. 27.6 MN/m² and above (276.7 bar or 4300 pounds/square inch). If a container with a certain volume of liquid has a pressure of 34.6 MN/m² (346 bar) applied it can be seen that its reduction in volume is small as against a similar air container. • Liquid is compressed by only 1% of its original volume, and 99% remains. • Air is compressed by 99% of its original volume and 1% (1/100) remains. It should be noted that the pressure in both will be felt equally in all directions. In practice a certain amount of force is expended in overcoming static resistance, that is friction between: • pistons and cylinders • piston rods and bearings/seals or glands • fluid and the pipe walls Order: 5422 2 51 Basic Hydraulics 2 Basic Hydraulics Large bore pipes and frictionless pistons would allow nearly 100% of the force to be utilized but would incur large weight and cost penalties. Friction between pistons and cylinders, piston rods and bearings cannot be completely eliminated, it can only be lessened by good design and workmanship. The friction between the walls of the pipes and the fluid depends upon: • velocity of the fluid in the pipes. • length, bore and the internal finish of the pipes. • number of bends. • viscosity of the oil. The variation of the above factors governs the amount of friction and therefore resistance and, as it is necessary to use glands, seals and backing rings etc. to prevent leakage, the most practical way to counteract this loss in efficiency is to use the correct fluid. Seals Seals perform a very important function in a hydraulic system, in preventing leakage of fluid. Static seals, gaskets and packing are used in many locations, and these effect a seal by being squeezed between two surfaces. Dynamic seals, fitted between sliding surfaces, may be of many different shapes, depending on their use and on the fluid pressures involved. “U” and “V” ring seals are effective in one direction only, but “O” rings and square section seals are often used where pressure is applied in either direction. Dynamic seals require lubrication to remain effective, and wetting of the bearing surface, or a slight seepage from the seals, is normally acceptable. Where high pressures are used, an “O” ring is normally fitted with a stiff backing ring, which retains the shape of the seal and prevents it from being squeezed between the two moving surfaces. Seals are made in a variety of materials, depending on the type of fluid with which they are to be used; if a seal of an incorrect material is used in a system, the sealing quality will be seriously degraded, and this may lead to failure of the component. Seals are easily damaged by grit, and a wiper ring is often installed on actuators to prevent any grit that may be deposited on the piston rod from contaminating the seals. The choice of an aircraft’s hydraulic fluid is influenced by the materials used for glands, seals, rings, seats etc. There are two in common use. • DTD 585 - a refined mineral based oil (Petroleum). Colour - red. Used with synthetic rubber seals (Neoprene). Note: DTD 585 is an obsolete specification. DEF STAN 91-48 replaces DTD 585 as the British specification. Other specifications are H515 NATO, OM15 Joint Service, MIL-H-5606F U.S., all for super clean grades. • SKYDROL - a phosphate ester based oil. Colour - Type 500A & B purple, Type