=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

“O” ring is normally fitted with a stiff backing ring, which retains the shape of the seal and prevents it from being squeezed between the two moving surfaces. Seals are made in a variety of materials, depending on the type of fluid with which they are to be used; if a seal of an incorrect material is used in a system, the sealing quality will be seriously degraded, and this may lead to failure of the component. Seals are easily damaged by grit, and a wiper ring is often installed on actuators to prevent any grit that may be deposited on the piston rod from contaminating the seals. The choice of an aircraft’s hydraulic fluid is influenced by the materials used for glands, seals, rings, seats etc. There are two in common use. • DTD 585 - a refined mineral based oil (Petroleum). Colour - red. Used with synthetic rubber seals (Neoprene). Note: DTD 585 is an obsolete specification. DEF STAN 91-48 replaces DTD 585 as the British specification. Other specifications are H515 NATO, OM15 Joint Service, MIL-H-5606F U.S., all for super clean grades. • SKYDROL - a phosphate ester based oil. Colour - Type 500A & B purple, Type 700 green. Used with synthetic rubber seals (Butyl). Is fire resistant and less prone to cavitation because of its higher boiling point. Hydraulic fluids should be handled with care as they are considered to be a skin and eye irritant. The fluids also have a detrimental effect on paintwork, sealing compounds, rubber materials, perspex etc., and they should never be mixed. ID: 5790 Basic Hydraulics 2 52 2Basic Hydraulics It is of major importance that only the specified hydraulic oil or its approved alternative is used in a hydraulic system . If the incorrect fluid is added to a system breakdown of the seals is likely causing fluid leakage, both internally within components and externally from the actuators. The colouring of the fluids assists in their identification and also assists in finding hydraulic leaks but the specification can only be confirmed by: • consulting the aircraft manual. • only using fluid from sealed containers or the appropriate replenishment rig. The ideal properties of a hydraulic fluid are: • be relatively incompressible, i.e. up to 27.6 MN/m 2 (276 bar), so ensuring instantaneous operation. • have good lubricating properties for metal and rubber. • have good viscosity with a high boiling point (helps prevent vapour locking and cavitation) and low freezing point e.g. temperature range +80°C to -70°C. • have a flash point above 100°C. • be non-flammable. • be chemically inert. • be resistant to evaporation, low volatility. • have freedom from sludging and foaming. • have good storage properties. • be non-corrosive. • be reasonably priced and readily available. Order: 5422 2 53 Basic Hydraulics 2 Basic Hydraulics Basic System As shown in Figure 2.5 there are six main components common to all hydraulic systems: • a reservoir of oil, which delivers oil to the pump and receives oil from the actuators. • a pump, either hand, engine or electrically driven. • a selector or control valve, enabling the operator to select the direction of the flow of fluid to the required service and providing a return path for the oil to the reservoir. • a jack, or set of jacks or actuators, to actuate the component. • a filter, to keep the fluid clean. • a relief valve, as a safety device to relieve excess pressure. Figure 2.5 Basic hydraulic system ID: 5790 Basic Hydraulics 2 54 2Basic Hydraulics Classification of Hydraulic Systems Active hydraulic systems are generally classified as low or high pressure, low pressure up to 2000 psi and high pressure above that with working system pressures averaging 3000 psi. The main advantage of a high pressure system is that the size of the actuators can be reduced, these need less fluids and the pipes can be made smaller. The combination of these leads to reduction in weight and saves space. Open-centre System The main advantage of this system is that it is simple, the main disadvantage is that only one service can be operated at a time. As shown in Figure 2.6, fluid is passed directly to the reservoir when no services are being operated, this allows the engine driven pump to run in an ‘off loaded’ condition as little pressure is generated but there is still a flow of oil through the pump to cool and lubricate it. The working pressure of these systems is usually up to 2000 psi On selection of a user system the fluid is directed to the actuator, which will move. When the actuator reaches the end of its travel pressure will build up to a value when the selector is returned to neutral in order to off load the pump and allow alternative selections to be made. The relief valve will relieve excess pressure if the selector does not return to its neutral position. This type of system is popular in many light aircraft which do not require a constant pressure to be maintained all the time as only items like landing gear and flaps will be powered for short periods of time each flight. Figure 2.6 Open-centre system Order: 5422 2 55 Basic Hydraulics 2 Basic Hydraulics Power Pack Light aircraft may alternatively be fitted with a self-contained power pack, the pack may operate the landing gear retraction system, they are also be used on large aircraft as emergency systems or to operate freight doors, etc. Closed System With this type of system, operating pressure is maintained in that part of the system which leads to the selector valves, and some method is used to prevent over-loading the pump. In systems which employ a fixed volume pump (constant delivery) an automatic cut-out valve is fitted, to divert pump output to the reservoir when pressure has built up to normal operating pressure. In other systems a variable volume pump (constant pressure) is used, delivery being reduced as pressure increases, whilst in some simple light aircraft systems, operation of an electrically-driven pump is controlled by a pressure-operated switch. A simple closed system is illustrated in Figure 2.7. Figure 2.7 Closed system ID: 5790 Basic Hydraulics 2 56 2Basic Hydraulics Reservoirs A reservoir provides storage space for the system fluid, supplying a head of fluid for the pump and compensating for small leaks. It also provides sufficient air space to allow for any variations of fluid in the system which may be caused by: • jack (actuator) ram displacement, since the capacity of the jack is less when contracted than extended. • thermal expansion, since the volume of oil increases with temperature. Most reservoirs are pressurized, to provide a positive fluid pressure at the pump inlet, and to prevent air bubbles from forming in the fluid at high altitude. The fluid level will vary according to: • the position of the jacks. • whether the accumulators are charged. • temperature. Air pressure is normally supplied from the compressor section of the engine or the cabin pressurization system. Refer to Figure 2.8. A reservoir also contains a relief valve, to prevent over pressurization; connections for suction pipes to the pumps, and return pipes from the system; a contents transmitter unit and a filler cap; and, in some cases, a temperature sensing probe. In systems which are fitted with a hand pump, the main pumps draw fluid through a stack pipe in the reservoir. This ensures that, if fluid is lost from that part of the system supplying the main pumps, or supplied solely by the main pumps, a reserve of fluid for the hand pump would still be available. Figure 2.8 Reservoir Order: 5422 2 57 Basic Hydraulics 2 Basic Hydraulics Filters Filters are fitted in both suction and pressure lines i.e. both sides of the pump and sometimes in the return line to the reservoir; a suction filter to protect the pump, and a pressure filter to ensure the cleanliness of fluid during use. They remove foreign particles from the fluid, and protect the seals and working surfaces in the components. In addition, individual components often have a small filter fitted to the inlet connection, and constant pressure pumps will have a “case drain filter” to help monitor pump condition. Some filters are fitted with a device which senses the pressure differential across the filter element, and releases a visual indicator, in the form of a button or illuminates a warning lamp, when the pressure differential increases as a result of the filter becoming clogged. False indication of element clogging, as a result of high fluid viscosity at low temperature, is prevented by a bi-metal spring which inhibits indicator button movement at low temperatures. Other filters are fitted with a relief valve, which allows unfiltered fluid to pass to the system when the element becomes clogged; this type of filter element must be changed at regular intervals. Paper filter elements are usually discarded when removed, but elements of wire cloth