=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

flows in the circuit now depends on four factors, the level of voltage applied, the frequency of the supply, the size of the plates and the dielectric constant of the material separating the plates. In our circuit three of these factors are fixed and the fourth, the dielectric constant, is variable because the dielectric consists of fuel and air. The higher the level of fuel in the tank the more fuel and less air will be in the capacitor probe, and vice versa. The amount of current flowing in the circuit therefore depends on the amount of fuel/air between the plates and in measuring this current we can have an accurate indication of the mass of fuel in our tanks. The system can be made sensitive to the specific gravity (density) of the fuel so that although the volume of a quantity of fuel may increase with a temperature rise, the resulting decrease in the specific gravity will ensure that the indicated mass (weight) remains the same. To compensate for change in aircraft attitude the capacitive system may have many capacitor probes in the tank connected in parallel to ‘average’ the measurement of the fuel in the tank. This enables the system to give an accurate indication irrespective of the aircraft attitude. Figure 16.6 Attitude compensation Figure 1.4. Attitude Compensation. ID: 5790 Aircraft Fuel Systems 16 324 16Aircraft Fuel Systems System Function If a capacitive gauging system fails, it does so in a manner to draw the attention of the user; a fail-safe circuit is incorporated which drives the gauge pointer slowly towards the empty position in order to prevent the indicator showing that there is more fuel in the tank than there actually is. Some systems also incorporate a test switch utilizing the fail-safe circuit, when the test switch is operated, the indication moves towards empty and when the switch is released the pointer should move back to its original position. Simple Quantity Measuring Systems In the event that the electronic measuring system does fail, we must be able to determine the quantity of fuel in the aircraft. A dipstick can be used from the top of the tank but of course it exposes the user to the dangers inherent in walking on high slippery surfaces. Another method is the ‘dripstick’, a calibrated hollow tube which is withdrawn from the under surface of the tank through a fuel proof aperture. When the top of the tube becomes lower than the fuel level, the fuel will drip through the tube, hence the name ‘dripstick’. The volume of the fuel in the tank can be established by reference to the calibrations on the tube. The disadvantage of this system is that the user’s armpit soon becomes saturated with the fuel dripping from the pipe. A more user friendly version of this system is the ‘dropstick’ or Magnetic Level Indicator (MLI). The previously mentioned tube now becomes a rod, calibrated to show the level of fuel in the tank. The rod is fitted within a fuel proof tube in the tank and around the tube is a magnet supported on a float. The tip of the rod is also fitted with a magnet and when it is lowered through the tube the fields of the two magnets interact. The length of rod protruding from the underside of the wing indicates the level of fuel in the tank. By reference to the aircraft manual and using the density of the fuel the mass of fuel in the tanks can be established. Fuel System Instrumentation The fuel system instrumentation on a light aircraft will consist of contents and pressure gauges as shown in Figure 16.2, but on large aircraft it is necessary to provide information regarding not only the quantity and pressure but also fuel used, position of valves such as cross-feed, inter engine and firewall shut-off valve. Other indications include pumps on or off and fuel temperature. These indications are usually in the form of “mimic” diagrams with ‘doll’s eyes’ and lights on the flight engineer’s panel or electronically presented schematic displays. Figure 16.7 shows a typical Airbus Electronic Centralized Aircraft Monitoring (ECAM) system display. A Boeing Engine Indicating and Crew Alerting System (EICAS) would be a similar display. Order: 5422 16 325 Aircraft Fuel Systems 16 Aircraft Fuel Systems FUEL Kg 3100 3100FOB 14350 750 5030 5030 7502800 F.USED 1 F.USED 2 APU LEFT CTR RIGHT -11 77 -11/g40C /g40C 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Courstey of Airbus Industrie Figure 1.5Electronic Fuel System Display (Airbus)Figure 16.7 Electronic fuel system display (Airbus) 1. F uel used, each engine 2. T otal fuel on Board 3. Engine fue l shut-off valve 4. AP U fuel shut-off valve 5. Cr oss-feed valve 6. W ing tank booster pump indication (Shown switched off) 7. C entre tank booster pump 8. T ransfer valve indication 9. F uel quantity, right wing outboard 10. F uel quantity, right wing inboard 11. F uel quantity, centre tank 12. T ank fuel temperature ID: 5790 Aircraft Fuel Systems 16 326 16Aircraft Fuel Systems Aircraft Refuelling Before fuelling an aircraft, fuelling zones should be established. These zones will extend at least 6 m (20 feet) radially from the filling and venting points on the aircraft and the fuelling equipment. Within these zones the following restrictions apply: • There should be no smoking. • If the exhaust of an APU which is required during the fuelling operation discharges into the zone, then it must be started before filler caps are removed or fuelling connections made. • If the APU stops for any reason during fuelling, it should not be started again until fuelling has ceased and there is no danger of igniting the fuel vapours. • Ground power units, (GPUs) should be located as far away as practical from the fuelling zones and not be connected or disconnected while fuelling is in progress. • Fire extinguishers should be located so as to be readily accessible. Light aircraft are refuelled by the overwing method with the quantity issued in litres or gallons indicated on the delivery vehicle. Large aircraft are pressure refuelled from hydrants or bowsers through underwing refuel/ defuel coupling points and controlled by quantity, tank and valve selection from a conveniently situated refuelling control panel. The quantity required in each tank can be preselected and the refuel valve to that tank will close when this level has been reached. The system will prevent any tank being overfilled. An example of an external refuel control panel is shown in Figure 16.8. Precautions before Fuelling Before fuelling commences, the following procedures should be carried out: • The aircraft should be bonded (grounded) to the fuelling equipment using dedicated wires and clips. Reliance must not be placed upon conductive hoses for effective bonding. • When overwing refuelling, the hose nozzle should be bonded (grounded) to the aircraft structure before removing the tank filler cap. Similarly, even funnels, filters and cans should be bonded to the aircraft. Plastic funnels or pipes should never be used. • When underwing pressure refuelling, the mechanical metal to metal contact between the aircraft fitting and the nozzle end eliminates the need for a separate hose-end bonding cable. NOTE: T he sequence of refuelling the aircraft tanks can adversely affect the CG position particularly if some of the tanks are only to be partially filled and/or the aircraft has a vertical or horizontal stabilizer tank. If in doubt consult the aircraft manual. Order: 5422 16 327 Aircraft Fuel Systems 16 Aircraft Fuel Systems Precautions during Fuelling When passengers are embarking or disembarking during fuelling operations, they should do so under the supervision of an airline official and their route should avoid the fuelling zones. Work on Aircraft during Refuelling The precautions to be taken during refuelling which appertain to work being carried out on the aircraft are many and various, some of the most pertinent are listed below: • In case the aircraft settles on the landing gear, all steps, trestles, jacks etc. should be moved clear. • The main engines should not be operated. • Strobe lighting should not be used. • All torches and lamps used within the fuelling zones should be either certified flameproof or of the ‘intrinsically safe’ type. • Only authorized personnel and vehicles should be allowed within the fuelling zone and their number should be kept to a minimum. ID: 5790 Aircraft Fuel Systems 16 328 16Aircraft Fuel Systems Figure 16.8 An external refuelling control panel Courtesy of Airbus Indsutrie Figure 1.6An external refuelling control panel Key to Figure 16.8 1. FUEL Q TY. Shows fuel quantity by tank. 2. H IGH LEVEL LIGHTS. These come on BLUE when high level is sensed and the corresponding refuel valve will close automatically. 3. REFUEL V ALVES SELECTOR (guarded in NORM) NORM. Refuelling valves are controlled by automatic refuelling logic. OPEN. Valves open when the MODE SELECT switch is set to REFUEL or DEFUEL position. In REFUEL each refuel/