=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

engine driven pumps to be stopped in the event of engine fire or component replacement. They are usually spherical ball cocks,(valves) which allow unrestricted flow when open. Bleed Points. Air in the system causes loud bangs and erratic operation. Bleed points are provided throughout the system to allow air to be removed. Fluid Sampling Points. Fluid sampling points are suitably positioned in the suction and pressure lines, to enable samples of fluid to be removed for analysis. Overheated fluid will appear darker than normal. A “milky” appearance indicates water. Powered Flying Controls Sub-system. A hydraulic sub-system for the operation of the flying controls, is often fed through a priority valve or pressure maintaining valve, which ensures that fluid under pressure is always available; the sub-system may also have a separate accumulator. Most modern aircraft will have alternate hydraulic supplies available for flight controls. Two, three or even four independent hydraulic systems can simultaneously supply power for primary flying controls. A complete system is shown in Figure 2.29 and Figure 2.30, overleaf. The position and purpose of the major components are illustrated. ID: 5790 Basic Hydraulics 2 74 2Basic Hydraulics Figure 2.29 G S C High Pressure (HP) Filter Another Hydraulic System Low Pressure (LP) Filter Separator Piston (Seals between gas & liquid) (a) Stores liquid under pressure (b) Damps out pressure /f_luctuations "Hammering" (c) Allows thermal expansion (d) Provides emergency supply of liquid (e) Provides initial liquid supply when selection made (f) Prolongs period between cut-in and cut-out of ACOV (If /f_itted) (Closes and stops /f_low when inlet pressure is less than outlet pressure) (Enables power to be transferred from another system without transferring liquid) (Protects system from excess pressure if ACOV or PUMP CONTROL fails ) (Protects system) (Reduces pump wear and liquid overheating) TYPES OF PUMP (a) Hand (Double Acting) (b) Engine Driven (c) Electric (DC or AC) (d) Pneumatic (Air Turbine) (e) Ram Air (HYRAT) (f) Hydraulic (Pump & Motor) Supply to Emergency System Contents Flight deck gauge Flight deck gauge Temperature (Shuts oﬀ liquid supply to pump in the event of an engine /f_ire. Operated by FIRE HANDLE (Protects Pump) Ground Service Coupling Allows systems to be tested on ground without engines running Pressurizing Air (Positive liquid supply at pump inlet, prevents air bubbles in liquid at high altitude) Reservoir Air Space Allows for variations of liquid (Jack Ram Displacement - Thermal Expansion & Accumulator liquid charge) Reservoir Storage space for liquid Head of liquid for pump Compensates for small leaks Flight deck gauge (liquid) Pressure CONSTANT VOLUME ONLYSYSTEM Cooler Non Return Valve (NRV) One Way Check Valve To System Accumulator Air P Full Flow Relief Valve Automatic Valve Cut-Out Pump Motor Hyd Firewall Valve Shut-Oﬀ Figure 1-26 Order: 5422 2 75 Basic Hydraulics 2 Basic Hydraulics Figure 2.30 UP Down To Secondary Services U/C DOWN ("Typical") U/C UP Return From Supply ESSENTIAL SERVICES (Typical) HYRAT ONLY supplies Flying Controls ( HY draulic R am A ir T urbine) Fitted in U/C UP line so that free-fall speed will be restricted Alternate System From Fuse Mechanical Overload Protection SelectorFLAPS Control Flow Valve R.V. Restrictor Valve Shuttle Valve Standby System From Sequence Valve Sequence Valve Selector Brakes Modulator Brake Valve Control Pressure Reducing Valve Shuttle Valve Power Flying Control T V R Selector Pressure Maintaining Valve (Priority Valve) L R N Relief Valve Figure 1-27 ID: 5790 Basic Hydraulics 2 76 2Basic Hydraulics - Figure 2.31 F27 High Pressure Pneumatic System Order: 5422 2 77 Basic Hydraulics 2 Basic Hydraulics High Pressure Pneumatic Systems High pressure pneumatic systems are not generally used on modern transport aircraft as large components such as landing gear are raised and lowered more efficiently by hydraulic power. However these systems are still in use on aircraft such as the F.27. Compressed air has some advantages over other systems e.g. • Air is universally available and is FREE. • Air is lighter than hydraulic fluid. • No fire hazard. • No viscosity problems with changes of temperature. • The system is lighter because no return lines are required The major disadvantage of air is its compressibility. The diagram shown in Figure 2.31, depicts the high pressure, closed centre system used on the F.27. The four stage compressor is driven from the accessory gearbox of the turboprop engines. The unloading valve ensures that the system pressure is maintained at 3300 psi. A shuttle valve enables the system to be charged from an external source. Two components provide protection against the possibility of water freezing in the system: • A moisture separator, which removes 98% of the water present in the air. • A dryer which removes the remaining water using a desiccant such as silica gel or anhydrous aluminium silicate. A 10 micron filter ensures that the air is clean before it enters the system. Three air bottles (reservoirs, accumulators) are provided to store the HP air ready for instant use. The 750 cubic inch for the main system, a 180 cubic inch for the brakes and a 180 cubic inch for emergency use. Most of the components operate with a pressure of 1000 psi, so the air is passed through a reducing valve before being used by the landing gear, passenger door, nose wheel steering and propeller brake. ID: 5790 Questions 2 78 2Questions Questions 1. A f orce of 100 N is applied to 2 separate jacks, the area of one is 0.02 m 2 and the other is 0.04 m2: a. the sm aller jack will exert a pressure of 2000 Pa and the larger 4000 Pa b. the sm aller jack will exert a pressure of 5000 Pa and the larger 2500 Pa c. bo th jacks will move at the same speed d. bo th have the same load 2. A p re charge pressure of 1000 bar of gas is shown on the accumulator gauge. The system is then pressurized to 1500 bar, so the accumulator will read: a. 500 bar b. 1 000 bar c. 1 500 bar d. 2500 bar 3. T he pressure gauge of a hydraulic system provides information regarding the pressure of: a. the air in the a ccumulator b. the air an d hydraulic fluid in the system c. the pr oportional pressure in the system d. the h ydraulic fluid in the system 4. A sh uttle valve: a. is used t o replace NRVs b. allo ws two supply sources to operate one unit c. allo ws one source to operate two units d. a cts as a non-return valve 5. D ef. Stan 91/48 is ---------- and is ------------- based: a. r ed, mineral b. r ed, synthetic c. gr een, mineral d. purple , synthetic 6. A r estrictor valve: a. is used t o restrict the number of services available after loss of system pressure b. co ntrols the rate of movement of a service c. co ntrols the rate of build-up of pressure in the system d. co ntrols the distance a jack moves 7. W ith a hyd lock there is: a. flo w, but no jack movement b. no flo w but jack continues to move under gravitational effects c. no flo w, jack is stationary d. co nstant flow Order: 5422 2 79 Questions 2 Questions 8. T he hydraulic fluid is changed, but the wrong fluid is replaced. This would lead to: a. high o perating fluid temperature b. s ystem failure from leaks and blocked filters, high temp and possible corrosion c. a r ise in the reservoir fill level d. no rmal operation, it does not matter which fluid is used 9. A ccumulator floating piston: a. pushe s the fluid up when being charged b. pushe s the fluid down when being charged c. pr ovides a seal between the gas and fluid d. pr events a hydraulic lock 10. A r elief valve: a. r elieves below system pressure b. m aintains pressure to a priority circuit c. r elieves at its designed pressure d. pr events excessive pressure through increased fluid temperature 11. T he primary purpose of a hydraulic reservoir is: a. t o compensate for leaks, displacement and expansion b. t o allow a space into which spare fluid may be stored c. t o indicate system contents d. t o maintain fluid between a jack and the accumulator 12. W ith air in the hydraulic system you would: a. igno re it because normal operation would remove it b. b leed the air out of the system c. allo w the accumulator to automatically adjust itself d. e xpect it to operate faster 13. T he pressure filter in a hydraulic system: a. filt ers the fluid returning to the tank b. is fitt ed down stream of the pump c. can be by pa ssed when maximum flow is required d. c lears the fluid as it leaves the reservoir 14. P ascal’s law states that: a. pr essure is inversely proportional to