=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

the pressure. During the cruise the outflow valves form a thrust recovery nozzle to regain lost thrust energy from the cabin exhaust air. In addition to the outflow valves the following safety devices must be fitted to any cabin Pressurization system. Safety valve. A simple mechanical outwards pressure relief valve fitted to relieve positive pressure in the cabin when the maximum pressure differential allowed for the aircraft type is exceeded i.e. prevents the structural max. diff. being exceeded. This valve will open if the pressure rises to max. diff. plus 0.25 psi. Inwards relief (inwards vent) valve. A simple mechanical inwards relief valve is fitted to prevent excessive negative differential pressure which will open if the pressure outside the aircraft exceeds that inside the aircraft by 0.5 to 1.0 psi. Order: 5422 11 221 Pressurization Systems 11 Pressurization Systems The inwards and outwards safety valves may be combined together in one unit or may be completely separate components and are positioned above the aircraft flotation line. The outwards and inwards relief valves must be duplicated. Figure 11.2 Air conditioning and pressurization valves Dump Valve. A manually operated component, the Dump Valve, will enable the crew to reduce the cabin pressure to zero for emergency dePressurization. This valve may also be used as the air outlet during manual operation of the Pressurization system of an aircraft fitted with pneumatic discharge valves. Blow out panels are fitted between passenger and cargo compartments in order to prevent excessive differences in pressure occurring between these areas in the event of, for example, a cargo door opening in flight. ID: 5790 Pressurization Systems 11 222 11Pressurization Systems Pressurization Controllers Pressure controllers vary in construction and operation and may be pneumatic, electro- pneumatic or, as is the case with most modern aircraft, electronic. Pneumatic controllers comprise pressure sensing elements which are subject to both cabin and ambient pressures as well as metering valves and controls for selecting the required cabin altitude and rate of pressure change. As the cabin pressure changes, the controller automatically transmits a signal to the outflow (discharge) valves. The outflow valves are positioned to regulate the release of air from the cabin at the pre- selected rate to achieve the required differential pressure and eventual stabilization at the required maximum differential pressure and are biased fully open when the aircraft is on the ground. In addition some pressure controllers are fitted with a ditching control which will close all the discharge valves to reduce the flow of water into the cabin in the event of a forced landing on water. Figure 11.3 Electronic pressurization control System Operation Figure 11.3 shows the schematic arrangement of the pressurization control system of a modern passenger transport aircraft. The automatic controllers are duplicated and have inputs from the aircraft static pressure sensing system, the cabin pressure and air/ground logic system. Order: 5422 11 223 Pressurization Systems 11 Pressurization Systems If pre-pressurization is part of the schedule then inputs will be required from the thrust lever positions and the door warning system. The cabin altitude control panel is remote from the controller and will generally be fitted to overhead panels on the flight deck. There are two modes of operation, auto (1 & 2) and manual with the outflow valves being electrically operated by either of the two AC motors under the control of the automatic controllers or by the DC motor for emergency or manual operation. Only one controller is in use at any one time, the other being on standby. The standby controller will automatically take over in the event of failure of the other controller. Selection of manual will lock out all normal automatic functions and enable the outflow valve(s) to be positioned by the manual control switch via the DC motor. The pilot will set the controller to produce the required flight profile (see Figure 11.4) Taxi. When the aircraft begins to taxi the pressurization GROUND/FLIGHT switch is selected to FLIGHT and the aircraft is pre-pressurized to a differential pressure (Δ) of 0.1 psi. This ensures that the transition to pressurized flight will be gradual and that there will be no surges of pressure on rotation and ingress of fumes from engines etc. Take off and climb . As the aircraft takes off, the ‘ground/air’ logic system will signal the controller to switch to proportional control. The controller will sense ambient and cabin pressure and position the outflow valves to control the rate of change of cabin altitude in proportion to the rate of climb of the aircraft (between 300 and 500 ft per minute). Cruise. When cruise altitude is reached the controller will switch to isobaric control to maintain a constant differential pressure. Once established in the cruise small changes in altitude (+/- 500 - 1000 ft) will be accommodated without any change in cabin pressure, however if the cruise altitude has to be increased significantly, then the flight altitude selection will have to be reset. If the maximum differential pressure has been reached the controller will not allow any further increase in differential pressure and the aircraft will now be in Max. Diff. Control. Descent and landing. At commencement of the descent the controller will switch back to proportional control and will give a cabin rate of descent of 300 ft/minute to produce a diff. pressure of 0.1 psi on touchdown (airfield altitude -200 ft). With the ‘ground/air’ logic system now in ground mode, changing the cabin pressure controller GROUND/FLIGHT switch to GROUND will drive the outflow valves to fully open to equalize cabin and ambient pressures. NOTE: On older aircraft the controller will reduce the differential pressure to zero on touchdown. To summarize: if the differential pressure is increasing the discharge valves are closing, if the differential pressure is decreasing then the discharge valves are opening and if the differential pressure is constant then, since the mass flow in is constant, the discharge valve will not move. ID: 5790 Pressurization Systems 11 224 11Pressurization Systems Figure 11.4 Pressurization profile Figure 2.4. Pressurisation Pro/f_ile 3880 With the system in manual control, the outflow valve position can be varied by means of the main outflow valve control and with reference to the cabin altitude gauge and the valve position indicator. The maximum permissible rate of change of cabin pressure is 0.16 psi/min (approximately a rate of climb or descent of 1500 ft/min). Cabin rates of climb and descent should be carefully monitored and should not normally exceed 500 ft/min during the climb or 300 ft/ min in the descent in order not to cause too much discomfort for the passengers, particularly those with colds etc. and to reduce the effect of rapid pressure changes in the ears. System Instrumentation The minimum indications required for a pressurization system are: • Cabin Altimeter. This gauge reads cabin pressure but is calibrated to read this in terms of the equivalent altitude of the cabin. • Cabin Vertical Speed Indicator. This indicates the rate at which the aircraft cabin is climbing or descending. • Cabin Differential Pressure Gauge. This indicates the difference in the absolute pressure between the inside and outside of the aircraft cabin and is generally calibrated in psi. In the event of a malfunction of the pressure controller or outflow valve, this instrument would indicate that the safety valves were controlling the cabin pressure at the structural (emergency) maximum pressure differential. Order: 5422 11 225 Pressurization Systems 11 Pressurization Systems In addition to the above there must be both AURAL and VISUAL warnings when the cabin altitude exceeds 10 000 ft. T hese will take the form of a horn and red light on the Centralized Warning Panel or warning caption on the appropriate EICAS or ECAM display. Figure 11.5 Example of system instrumentation (A320) Courtesy of Airbus Industrie Ground Testing and Checking Pressurization systems must be checked at periodic intervals in order to ensure that there are no serious leaks and that the pressure control components and safety devices are operating correctly. The occasions on which these tests are carried out are: • Initial proof pressure test. • When specified in the maintenance manual. • After actual or suspected system malfunction. • After repairs and modifications to the aircraft pressure hull. ID: 5790 Pressurization Systems 11 226 11Pressurization Systems The exact procedure to be followed when carrying out functioning and leak rate tests is specific to type and will be laid down in the aircraft maintenance manual but may be required to establish any or all of the following: • General functioning and temperature control. • Operation of pressurization controller(s) and normal maximum differential control. • Safety valve check (maximum structural differential pressure). • Leak rate check. Altitude (ft) Temperature (°C) Pressure (hPa) Pressure (psi) Density (kg per m3) Relative Density (%) 0 +15.0 1013.25 14.7 1.225 100.0 5000 +5.1 843.1 12.22 1.056 86.2 10 000 -4.8 696.8 10.11 0.905 73.8 15 000 -14.7 571.8 8.29 0.771 62.9 20 000 -24.6 465.6 6.75 0.653 53.3 25 000 -34.5 376.0 5.45 0.549 44.8