=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

undercarriage units in order to reduce their weight and stowed volume when retracted. Landing Gear Types - Fixed or Retractable With slow, light aircraft, and some larger aircraft on which simplicity is of prime importance, a fixed (non-retractable) landing gear is often fitted, the reduced performance caused by the drag of the landing gear during flight is offset by the simplicity, reduced maintenance and low initial cost. With higher performance aircraft, drag becomes progressively more important, and the landing gear is retracted into the wings or fuselage during flight, there are, however, penalties of increased weight, greater complication and additional maintenance. Fixed Landing Gear There are three main types of fixed landing gear, those which have a spring steel leg, those which employ rubber cord to absorb shocks, and those which have an oleo-pneumatic strut to absorb shocks. Exceptions include aircraft with rubber in compression, spring coil, and liquid spring struts. Spring Steel Legs. Spring steel legs are usually employed at the main undercarriage positions. The leg consists of a tube, or strip of tapered spring steel, the upper end being attached by bolts to the fuselage and the lower end terminating in an axle on which the wheel and brake are assembled. Rubber Cord. When rubber cord is used as a shock-absorber, the undercarriage is usually in the form of tubular struts, designed and installed so that the landing force is directed against a number of turns of rubber in the form of a grommet or loop. ID: 5790 Landing Gear 3 90 3Landing Gear Oleo-pneumatic Struts. Some fixed main undercarriages, and most fixed nose undercarriages, are fitted with an oleo-pneumatic shock absorber strut. The design of individual struts varies considerably, but one point worthy of consideration is the fitting of spats to oleo-pneumatic strut. Spats are an aerodynamic fairing which may be required to minimize the drag of the landing gear structure. One drawback to their use is the problem of them picking up mud when landing or taking off from grass airfields. This can add considerably to the weight of the aircraft and may affect take-off performance. To avoid this eventuality, if any mud has been picked up, the spats must be removed, cleaned and replaced before the next take-off. Figure 3.1 An oleo-pneumatic strut FLUID FILLER PLUGS UPPER CYLINDER FLUID PISTON GAS LOWER CYLINDER AXLE SEPARATOR PISTON FLUTTER VALVE GAS INFLATION VALVE SEALING RING SEALING RINGS EXTENSION OF THE LEG CAUSES THE FLUTTER VALVE TO RISE, RESTRICTING THE FLOW OF THE FLUID UPPER TORQUE LINK LOWER TORQUE LINK Figure 1.1 An Oleo-Pneumatic Strut. Order: 5422 3 91 Landing Gear 3 Landing Gear Construction of Oleo-pneumatic Struts Figure 3.1. shows the construction of a simple oleo-pneumatic strut, in this instance a nose undercarriage which also includes a steering mechanism. The outer cylinder is fixed rigidly to the airframe structure by two mounting brackets, and houses an inner cylinder and a piston assembly, the interior space being partially filled with hydraulic fluid and inflated with compressed gas (air or nitrogen). The inner cylinder is free to rotate and move up and down within the outer cylinder, but these movements are limited by the torque links, (scissor-links) which connect the inner cylinder to the steering collar. The steering collar arms are connected through spring struts to the rudder pedals, and a shimmy damper is attached to the steering collar. Oleo-pneumatic Strut Operation • Under static conditions the weight of the aircraft is balanced by the strut gas pressure and the inner cylinder takes up a position approximately midway up its stroke. • Under compression (e.g. when landing), the strut shortens and fluid is forced through the gap between the piston orifice and the metering rod, this restriction limiting the speed of upward movement of the inner cylinder. • As the internal volume of the cylinders decreases, the gas pressure rises until it balances the upward force. • As the upward force decreases, the gas pressure acts as a spring and extends the inner cylinder. The speed of extension is limited by the restricted flow of fluid through the orifice. • Normal taxiing bumps are cushioned by the gas pressure and dampened by the limited flow of fluid through the orifice. • Movement of the rudder pedals turns the nose wheel to facilitate ground manoeuvres, the spring struts being provided to allow for vertical movement of the nose wheel, and prevent shocks from being transmitted through the rudder control system. NOTE: Evidence of strut gas pressure leakage will be given by the strut not extending as far as it should, uneven amounts of Fescalized metal showing on each main gear. Fescalized metal is the shiny material which forms the hard outer coating of the strut. ID: 5790 Landing Gear 3 92 3Landing Gear Retractable Landing Gear The majority of modern transport aircraft, and an increasing number of light aircraft, are fitted with a retractable landing gear, for the purpose of improving aircraft performance. Retraction is normally effected by a hydraulic system, but pneumatic or electrical systems are also used. In some instances power is used for retraction only, extension being effected by gravity and slipstream. Retractable landing gear is also provided with mechanical locks to ensure that each undercarriage is locked securely in the retracted and extended positions; devices to indicate to the crew the position of each undercarriage; and means by which the landing gear can be extended in the event of failure of the power source. In addition, means are provided to prevent retraction with the aircraft on the ground, and to guard against landing with the landing gear retracted. Undercarriage wells are normally sealed by doors for aerodynamic reasons. Design and Construction of Retractable Gear The geometrical arrangement and physical location of undercarriage units on aircraft is by no means standard. The type, size and position is decided at the design stage, having already taken into account the many factors that must be considered. There are two main types of landing gear. Nose wheel, which are often referred to as tricycle and tail wheel aircraft that are also called tail draggers Most aircraft use the “tricycle layout”, where the two main undercarriage units are positioned just aft of the C of G and support up to 90% of the aircraft’s weight and all initial landing shocks. The nose wheel unit keeps the aircraft level, and in most cases also provides a means of steering. One advantage that the “tricycle” gear has over the “tail dragger” type is that there is no danger of it tipping over onto its nose while taxiing in a strong tail wind and also that there is much less danger of it ground looping. Factors Affecting Design and Construction Of the many factors taken into consideration, the main ones are listed below: • Size of aircraft. • Weight of aircraft. • Role of aircraft. • High or low wing. • Performance. • Construction of aircraft and associated stowage problems. Order: 5422 3 93 Landing Gear 3 Landing Gear Other Factors Modern concepts of aircraft design have been greatly influenced by the need to keep the cost down and the requirements for them to be multi-role. Dual freight and passenger carrying roles have resulted in the high wing monoplane type where the floor of the aircraft needs to be as close to the ground as possible for ease of freight loading. However, with some wings being as high as 20 feet off the ground, it became impossible to build an undercarriage of sufficient strength to reach that far, so the modern trend has been to incorporate the main undercarriage in the fuselage. Underwing Landing Gear Units For aircraft with the standard underwing fitted undercarriage, an example is shown in Figure 3.2, the units comprise basically: • A leg, pin-jointed to the aircraft structure. • A wheel(s). • A means of absorbing landing shocks. • A means of controlling deceleration of the aircraft. • A means to withstand turning and braking stresses • Large aircraft (Boeing 747) have the ability to turn part of the main gear to assist with steering during tight turns by reducing the turning radius. When the nose wheels are turned the main wheels turn in the opposite direction ID: 5790 Landing Gear 3 94 3Landing Gear Figure 3.2 A wing mounted landing gear assembly Fuselage Mounted Landing Gear For aircraft with the undercarriage built into the fuselage, the requirements are basically the same as those for the wing mounted landing gear, except that: • With no geometric lock available, provision has to be made for locking the undercarriage up and down. • Depending on wheel layout, each wheel may require its own shock absorber unit, and possibly even a steering motor. • Ease of access to the undercarriage in flight allows manual lowering of the undercarriage in emergency. Loads Sustained by the Landing Gear An undercarriage unit has to withstand varying loads during its life. These loads are transmitted to the mountings in the aircraft structure, so these too must