=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

taken during refuelling which appertain to work being carried out on the aircraft are many and various, some of the most pertinent are listed below: • In case the aircraft settles on the landing gear, all steps, trestles, jacks etc. should be moved clear. • The main engines should not be operated. • Strobe lighting should not be used. • All torches and lamps used within the fuelling zones should be either certified flameproof or of the ‘intrinsically safe’ type. • Only authorized personnel and vehicles should be allowed within the fuelling zone and their number should be kept to a minimum. ID: 5790 Aircraft Fuel Systems 16 328 16Aircraft Fuel Systems Figure 16.8 An external refuelling control panel Courtesy of Airbus Indsutrie Figure 1.6An external refuelling control panel Key to Figure 16.8 1. FUEL Q TY. Shows fuel quantity by tank. 2. H IGH LEVEL LIGHTS. These come on BLUE when high level is sensed and the corresponding refuel valve will close automatically. 3. REFUEL V ALVES SELECTOR (guarded in NORM) NORM. Refuelling valves are controlled by automatic refuelling logic. OPEN. Valves open when the MODE SELECT switch is set to REFUEL or DEFUEL position. In REFUEL each refuel/ defuel valve will close when high level is detected in the associated tank. SHUT. Valves close. Order: 5422 16 329 Aircraft Fuel Systems 16 Aircraft Fuel Systems 4. MOD E SELECT switch (guarded at OFF) OFF. Refuel system is de-energized and the refuel valves are closed. REFUEL. Refuel valves operate in automatic or in manual mode depending on the position of the refuel valve switches. DEFUEL. Refuel valves and transfer valve open. 5. TRF (tr ansfer) light. Comes on AMBER when the transfer valve is open. 6. TEST switch. HIGH. Illuminate if the high level sensors and associated circuits are serviceable. LTS. Lights on panel and all 8’s on fuel quantity indicator illuminate. 7. ELE C POWER. Refuelling or defuelling can be powered by GPU, APU or BATTERY 1. 8. P RESELECTED DISPLAY. Displays the preselected total fuel quantity in kg × 1000 9. P RESELECTOR ROCKER SWITCH. Pressing either side of the switch increases or decreases the preselected quantity. 10. A CTUAL. Displays the TOTAL fuel on board. 11. A UTO REFUEL LIGHT. Comes on GREEN (END) when automatic refuelling is completed. Refuelling with Passengers on Board - EU-OPS 1.305 To reduce turnaround time, and for security reasons, airline operators of fixed wing aircraft may allow passengers to embark, disembark or remain on board during fuelling operations, provided the following safety procedures are followed: • It is not permissible to refuel fixed wing aircraft with less than 20 seats while passengers remain on board. • Passengers should disembark if wide-cut fuels (e.g. Jet B) are being used. • Passengers should disembark whenever AVGAS is involved. • One qualified person must remain at a specified location during fuelling operations with passengers on board. This qualified person must be capable of handling emergency procedures concerning fire protection and fire fighting, handling communications and initiating and directing an evacuation. • Crew, staff and passengers must be warned that de/refuelling is about to take place. • Seat belt signs must be off. ID: 5790 Aircraft Fuel Systems 16 330 16Aircraft Fuel Systems • NO SMOKING signs must be on together with interior lighting to enable emergency exits to be identified. • Passengers must be instructed to unfasten their seat belts and refrain from smoking. • Sufficient qualified personnel must be on board and prepared for an immediate evacuation. • If the presence of fuel vapour is detected inside the aircraft, or any other hazard arises during de/refuelling, fuelling must be stopped immediately. • The ground area beneath the exits intended for emergency evacuation and slide deployment areas must be kept clear. • Provision must be made for a safe and rapid evacuation. • Provision should be made, via at least two main passenger doors (or the main passenger door plus one emergency exit when only one main door is available) and preferably at opposite ends of the aircraft, for the safe evacuation of the aircraft in the event of an emergency. • Ground servicing and work within the aircraft such as catering and cleaning, should be carried out in such a way that they do not create a hazard or obstruct exits. Additional Instructions for Wide Bodied Aircraft with Automatic Inflatable Chutes • When a loading bridge is in use, no additional sets of steps need be provided. However, either the left or right rear door should be manned constantly by a cabin attendant and should be prepared for immediate use as an emergency route using the automatic inflatable chute. Where slide action requires manual fitting of an attachment to the aircraft (e.g. girt bar) the slide should be engaged throughout the fuelling process. • As a precautionary measure when a loading bridge is not available for use, one set of passenger steps should be positioned at the opened main passenger door which is normally used for the embarkation and/or disembarkation of passengers. Additional Instructions for Aircraft without Automatic Inflatable Chutes • When a loading bridge is in use, one set of aircraft steps should be positioned at another opened passenger door, preferably at the opposite end of the aircraft. • When a loading bridge is not in use, aircraft steps should be positioned at two of the main passenger doors (preferably one forward and one aft) which are to be open. • Where aircraft are fitted with integral stairways and these are deployed, each may count as one means of exit. Order: 5422 16 331 Aircraft Fuel Systems 16 Aircraft Fuel Systems Precautions after Fuelling When fuelling is complete, bonding wires (grounding wires) should not be removed until either: • filler caps have been refitted, or • the pressure refuelling hose has been disconnected. Special Hazards There are certain situations which pose a particular danger while fuelling is being carried out. The following is a (not exhaustive) list which covers some of the rules to be observed in those situations: • Aircraft should not be fuelled within 30 m (100 ft) of radar equipment either under test or in use in either aircraft or ground installations. • If the landing gear is overheated, the aerodrome Fire Service should be called and no fuelling carried out until the heat has dissipated. • Extreme caution should be exercised during electrical storms. Fuelling operations should be suspended during severe electrical disturbances in the vicinity of the airfield. • The use of photographic flash bulbs or electronic flash equipment within 6 m (20 ft) of fuelling or vent points should not be permitted. Marking of Fuelling Equipment All fuelling vehicles, hydrant dispensers and their components should conform to the relevant standards. Fuelling vehicles and hydrants dispensing AVTUR will be identified by prominently placed labels with the word “AVTUR” and/or JET A , JET B depending on grade printed in white on a black background. Fuelling vehicles dispensing AVGAS will be identified by prominently placed labels with the word “AVGAS” and the grade e.g. 100/130, 100LL etc. printed in white on a red background. ID: 5790 Questions 16 332 16Questions Question Paper 1 1. B affles are fitted in aircraft fuel tanks: a. t o assist in correct fuel distribution b. t o prevent fuel surging during aircraft manoeuvres c. t o prevent the static build-up in the tank during refuelling d. t o channel fuel to the vent valve 2. A po wer failure to a capacitive fuel contents system would cause the gauge to: a. sho w full scale deflection high b. fluc tuate between high and low readings c. r emain fixed on the last contents noted before failure d. sho w full scale deflection low 3. A fue l booster pump, besides pumping fuel to the engine, can also be utilized to: a. jettiso n and transfer fuel b. jettiso n and heat the fuel c. tr ansfer and heat the fuel d. tr ansfer and recycle the fuel 4. Dur ing fuel jettison, the aircraft is protected against running out of fuel by: a. high le vel float switches b. pr eset jettison quantity switches c. the cr ew remaining alert d. lo w level float switches 5. T o indicate that a refuelling bowser carries JET A1 aviation kerosene: a. ye llow and black stripes are marked on the refuelling hose b. JE T A1 would be painted in 30 cm high symbols on the side of the container c. JE T A1 is printed in white on a black background label positioned prominently on the vehicle d. the dr iver wears a straw yellow water and fuel proof jacket 6. A djustments may have to made to an aircraft’s engine fuel system if it has been refuelled with JET B instead of its normal JET A1 fuel, these adjustments are to cater for: a. the c hange in the specific gravity of the fuel b. the c hange in the