=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

cubic ft per minute per crew member”.) Temperature Cabin air temperature should be maintained within the range 65°F to 75°F, (18°C to 24°C). Relative Humidity Ideally the relative humidity within the cabin should be approximately 30%. Note: the relative humidity at 40 000 ft is o nly 1 to 2% Contamination Carbon monoxide contamination of the cabin air must not exceed 1 part in 20 000. Ventilation Adequate ventilation must be provided on the ground and during unpressurized phases of flight. Duplication The air conditioning system must be duplicated to the extent that no single component failure will cause the provision of fresh air to fall to a rate which is lower than 0.5 lb per seat per minute. An aircraft air conditioning system must be capable of maintaining an adequate supply of air for ventilation and pressurization at a temperature and relative humidity which ensures comfortable conditions for both passengers and crew. These requirements are met as follows: Adequate Supply The mass flow of air into the cabin is maintained at a constant value which must be sufficient to achieve cabin pressurization when cruising at maximum operating altitude. Temperature The temperature of the air supply to the cabin is controlled by mixing hot and cold air in variable proportions to maintain the cabin air temperature within prescribed limits. Humidity Moisture is removed from, or added to, the cabin air supply to maintain a comfortable level of humidity. The method of conditioning will vary depending upon the type of aircraft, the power unit and the operating characteristics of the aircraft concerned. Order: 5422 10 203 Aircraft Pneumatic Systems 10 Aircraft Pneumatic Systems Systems Used for Non-pressurized Flight Ram Air Systems In these systems, which are used in used in unpressurized piston engined aircraft, ambient atmospheric air is introduced to the cabin through forward facing air intakes. Some of this ram air can be heated by exhaust or combustion heaters and then mixed with the cold ambient air in varying proportions to give a comfortable cabin temperature. It is of extreme importance that the supply (ram) air does not come into contact with, or is contaminated by, the exhaust gases or the air used for combustion. A typical system for a light aircraft is shown in Figure 10.1 which also features hot windscreen demisters and a fresh air blower for use on the ground when there is no ram air. The heater muff or exhaust muff is a close fitting cowl around the exhaust pipe which allows ram air to come into close contact with the hot exhaust pipe to provide hot air for heating the cabin. Fresh cold air can be allowed into the cabin through the ram air inlets on the wing leading edge. After use the air is dumped overboard through a vent on the underside of the aircraft. Figure 10.1 Light aircraft hot and cold air system Figure 1.2. Light Aircraft Hot and Cold Air System. ID: 5790 Aircraft Pneumatic Systems 10 204 10Aircraft Pneumatic Systems Combustion Heater The fuel used in the heater is normally that which is used in the aircraft’s engines and the heater works by burning a fuel/air mixture within the combustion chamber. Air for combustion is supplied by a fan or blower and the fuel is supplied via a solenoid operated fuel valve. The fuel valve is controlled by duct temperature sensors but can be manually overridden. The system is designed so that there is no possibility of leaks from inside the chamber contaminating the cabin air. In addition the system must be provided with a number of safety devices which must include: • Automatic fuel shut-off in the event of any malfunction. • Adequate fire protection in the event of failure of the structural integrity of the combustion chamber. • Automatic shut-off if the outlet air temperature becomes too high. Figure 10.2 A combustion heater - Order: 5422 10 205 Aircraft Pneumatic Systems 10 Aircraft Pneumatic Systems Systems Used for Pressurized Flight Engine Driven Cabin Supercharger (Blower) Systems When a supply of air from the compressor of a gas turbine engine for air conditioning or pressurization is not available, cabin air supply may be provided by blowers driven through the accessory gearbox or by turbo-compressors driven by bleed air. Such systems were necessary for piston engined and turbo-propeller aircraft and are used for some turbojet aircraft where the air supply from the compressor is considered to be too dirty (contaminated).These blowers may be of the centrifugal or positive displacement (Rootes) type. The blower must be capable of supplying the required mass flow of air under all operating conditions which means that at sea level with the engine running at high speed too high a mass flow will be delivered, therefore in order to prevent over pressurization of the supply ducts, a mass flow controller signals spill valves to vent the excess air flow to atmosphere. This method is wasteful and is avoided where possible by using variable speed drives. In such a system, the mass flow produced by the engine is dependent on the rotational speed of the blower and the air density. This air can be heated by restricting the flow by means of a choke valve which can be progressively closed to increase the temperature and pressure of the air leaving the blower and opened to prevent excessive temperatures and pressures. The hot and cold air supplies are mixed in varying proportions to maintain the delivery temperature at a comfortable level for both passengers and crew. Selection and control may be automatic or manual. Figure 10.3 M Figure 1.4. ID: 5790 Aircraft Pneumatic Systems 10 206 10Aircraft Pneumatic Systems Engine Bleed Air Systems This the most widely used method of supplying charge air for the air conditioning systems of modern aircraft. Hot pressurized air is supplied to the bleed air duct from the LP/HP compressor. A tapping is then taken from the duct to supply the air conditioning system. This air is passed through a mass flow controller or a modulated engine bleed air valve and since the bleed air supply is always at a higher temperature than that required for passenger comfort a means of cooling this air is accomplished by the air conditioning pack. The engine bleed air system consists of the power source (the engine) and control devices for temperature and pressure regulation during operation. Because of the great variation of air output available from a gas turbine engine between idle and maximum rpm there is a need to maintain a reasonable supply of air during low rpm as well as restricting excessive pressure when the engine is at maximum rpm. It is usual to tap two pressure stages to maintain a reasonable pressure band at all engine speeds. Order: 5422 10 207 Aircraft Pneumatic Systems 10 Aircraft Pneumatic Systems Figure 10.4 Air sources and uses (schematic) Figure 1.1a. Air Sources and Uses (Schematic) ID: 5790 Aircraft Pneumatic Systems 10 208 10Aircraft Pneumatic Systems Figure 10.5 Air sources and uses (pictorial) Figure 1.1b. Air Sources and Uses (Pictorial) Figure 10.4 shows a typical bleed air system with air being ducted from two stages of the compressor, a low pressure (LP) stage and a higher pressure (HP) stage. In this case the stages used are the 5th and 9th. The two sources are combined together at the High Pressure Shut- off Valve (HPSOV). This valve is pressure sensitive and pneumatically operated and is open when there is insufficient air pressure from the LP system to maintain the required flow. As the engine speeds up the LP air pressure will increase until it closes the high pressure shut-off valve so that, in all normal stages of flight, bleed air will come from the LP stages. The high pressure shut-off valves are designed to open relatively slowly on engine start up or when air conditioning is selected to minimize the possibility of a surge of air pressure. They are also designed to close very quickly to prevent an ingress of fumes or fire to the cabin in the event of an engine fire. The bleed air control valve is the separation point between the engine and the pneumatic system manifold and allows the bleed air to enter the pneumatic system and is controlled electrically from the flight deck. Non-return valves (NRV) are installed in the LP stage ducts to prevent HP air entering the LP stages of the engine when the high pressure shut-off valve is open. Most multi-engine aircraft also keep the supplying engines or sides separate with each engine supplying its own user services. These are kept independent by isolation valves which are normally closed but which may be opened if an engine supply is lost to feed the other side’s services. Order: 5422 10 209 Aircraft Pneumatic Systems 10 Aircraft Pneumatic Systems The system will be fitted with a duct pressure gauge, valve position indicators and overheat sensors both inside and outside the supply ducts. The system will also be fitted with safety devices to prevent