=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

one hydraulic system, whilst the inboard spoilers are powered by a second system. Hydraulic pressure shut-off valves are controlled by the two flight spoiler switches. The flight spoilers are hydraulically actuated in response to movement of the aileron controls. A spoiler mixer, connected to the aileron control system, controls the hydraulic PCUs on each spoiler panel to provide spoiler movement proportional to aileron movement. Flight spoilers rise on the wing with the ‘up-going’ aileron and remain retracted on the wing with the ‘down- going’ aileron. Figure 7.12 Speed brake selector Courtesy of the Boeing Company ID: 5790 Flight Control Systems 7 162 7Flight Control Systems Spoiler Operation Aileron control wheel rotation transmits roll control signals to the aileron Power Flying Control Units through the captain’s control cables. Aileron Power Flying Control Unit movement actuates the ailerons and simultaneously sends a roll control signal to the spoiler mixer. Rotation of the spoiler mixer output mechanism actuates the spoiler control valves to raise the spoilers on the down-going wing (up-going aileron). Vertical rotation of the spoiler actuators provides the follow-up to cancel the control valves input when the desired spoiler deflection has been achieved. This follow-up allows the flight spoilers to be positioned at any intermediate angle between retracted and fully up. In this manner, the flight spoilers assist the ailerons in providing lateral control. Flight spoiler hydraulic power is controlled by electric motor driven valves situated in the flight control power system, allowing the spoilers to be isolated if required. Two spoiler switches individually control these valves. The flight spoilers continue to provide lateral control when used as speed brakes and will sum the two inputs of Roll and Speed brake. A typical example would be: “With the Speed brakes deployed in flight and a pilot’s input to Roll/Turn to the left, then the Spoiler(s) move up on the down-going wing, and down on the up-going wing.” So there is in fact a ‘combination action’ of the spoilers taking into account the effects of drag, adverse yaw, roll and speed control demands. Automatic Ground Speed Brake Control Operation Operation is a function of input signals from: • Speed brake lever selected to the armed position . Arming the speed brake lever, places the flight and ground spoilers in the automatic lift dumping mode of operation. • Anti-skid (wheel spin up) The anti-skid system will send electrical power signals to the wheel speed relays for each wheel. A combination of wheel spin up signals (on touchdown) through two parallel circuits will energize the speed brake actuator to drive the speed lever to the up position, so raising all spoilers. • Air/ground sensing . If both anti-skid channels are inoperative on touchdown, the air/ ground sensing circuits will actuate the system when the landing gear strut is compressed. • Thrust lever positions. Retarding the thrust levers on touchdown, will operate the speed brake lever to raise all spoilers. • Thrust reverser operation. The reverser system linkage mechanically raises the speed brake lever and energizes a relay which supplies power to the speed brake system, raising all spoilers. • Excess indicated airspeed (IAS) protection . There will be an automatic protection system to prevent deployment at excess IAS. The system has a ‘Go-around’ capability whereby a wheel spin up after slowing down or the opening of the thrust levers will retract all spoilers. Order: 5422 7 163 Flight Control Systems 7 Flight Control Systems Appendix A CIVIL AVIATION AUTHORITY CONTROL SYSTEMS 1. INTRODUCTION. The purpose of this Leaflet is to provide general guidance and advice on the inspection procedures for control systems which are either manually operated, power assisted or power operated. The Leaflet should be read in conjunction with the relevant approved drawings and manuals for the aircraft concerned. 2. CONTROL SYSTEMS. A control system is defined as a system by which the flight attitude or the propulsive force of an aircraft is changed. 2.1 F or the purpose of duplicate inspection (see paragraph 2.2), the flight control system includes the main control surfaces, lift and drag devices and trim and feel systems, together with any flight control lock systems and the associated operating mechanisms and controls. On the case of rotorcraft, the flight control system includes the mechanisms used by the pilot to control collective pitch, cyclic pitch and yaw. The engine control system includes the primary engine controls and related control systems (e.g. throttle controls, fuel cock controls, oil-cooler controls) and the mechanisms used by the crew to operate them. 2.2 Duplicate Inspection. A duplicate inspection of a vital point/control system is defined as an inspection which is first made and certified by one qualified person and subsequently made and certified by a second qualified person. NOTE: Vital Point. Any point on an aircraft at which single incorrect assembly could lead to catastrophe, i.e. result in loss of aircraft and/or in fatalities (see BCAR Section A, Chapter A5-3). 2.2.1 C omponents, systems or vital points subject to duplicate inspection, must not be disturbed or re-adjusted between the first and second part of the inspection must, as nearly as possible, follow immediately after the first part. 2.2.2 In some circumstances, due to peculiarities of assembly or accessibility, it may be necessary for both parts of the inspection to be made simultaneously. 3. I NSPECTION OF CONTROL SYSTEM COMPONENTS 3.1 C ontrol system components, the part of which are concealed during bench assembly before installation, shall be inspected in duplicate on assembly during manufacture, overhaul or repair. 3.2 B oth parts of the duplicate inspection and the results of any tests made during and after final assembly shall be certified on the Inspection Record for the part concerned. 4. D UPLICATE INSPECTION OF CONTROL SYSTEMS 4.1 A duplicate inspection of the control system in the aircraft shall be made (a) before the first flight of all aircraft after initial assembly, (b) before the first flight after the overhaul, replacement, repair adjustment or modification of the system. The two parts of the duplicate inspection shall be the final operations and as the purpose of the inspection is to establish the integrity of the system all work should have been completed. If after the duplicate inspection has been completed, the control system is disturbed in anyway before the first flight, that part of the system which has been disturbed shall be inspected in duplicate (paragraph 2.2) before the aircraft flies. ID: 5790 Flight Control Systems 7 164 7Flight Control Systems 4.2 In so me instances it may not be possible after complete assembly of the aircraft to inspect all parts of the system because some sections of the system may get progressively ‘boxed in’ and sealed during assembly operations. In such cases the condition and security of any section which is liable to be sealed must be established to the satisfaction of the persons named in paragraph 5 before the section is sealed and related Inspection Record endorsed accordingly. 4.3 Ins pection Records should be carefully prepared to ensure that any duplicate inspection required at an early stage during assembly operations is clearly indicated, thus avoiding unnecessary dismantling at later stages. 4.4 T he correct functioning of control systems is at all times of vital importance to airworthiness. It is also essential that suitably licensed aircraft engineers and members of approved inspection organisations responsible for the inspection or duplicate inspection should be thoroughly conversant with the systems concerned. The inspection must be carried out systematically to ensure that each and every part of the system is correctly assembled and is able to operate freely over the specified range of movement without the risk of fouling. Also that it is correctly and adequately locked, clean and correctly lubricated and is working in the correct sense in relation to the movement of the control by the crew. 5. P ERSONS AUTHORISED TO CERTIFY DUPLICATE INSPECTIONS 5.1 P ersons authorised to make the first and second parts of the duplicate inspection of the control systems in accordance with BCAR Section A Chapter A6-2 are as follows: a) Air craft engineers appropriately licensed in Categories A, B, C, and D. b) Me mbers of appropriately Approved Organisations who are considered by the Chief Inspector competent to make such inspections, in accordance with Airworthiness Notice No. 3. F or minor adjustments to control systems when the aircraft is away from base, the second part of the duplicate inspection may be performed by a pilot or flight engineer licensed for the type of aircraft concerned. 5.2 C ertification. It is recommended that the certification of the duplicate inspection be in the following form: Du plicate inspection performed in accordance with the requirements of BCAR, Section A C hapter A6-2. 1s t Inspection .................................... sign ature .................................... a uthority 2n d Inspection .................................... sign ature .................................... a uthority Date ............................ Order: 5422 165 8 Chapter Flight Controls Purpose of Controls. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .