=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

the gas and fluid d. pr events a hydraulic lock 10. A r elief valve: a. r elieves below system pressure b. m aintains pressure to a priority circuit c. r elieves at its designed pressure d. pr events excessive pressure through increased fluid temperature 11. T he primary purpose of a hydraulic reservoir is: a. t o compensate for leaks, displacement and expansion b. t o allow a space into which spare fluid may be stored c. t o indicate system contents d. t o maintain fluid between a jack and the accumulator 12. W ith air in the hydraulic system you would: a. igno re it because normal operation would remove it b. b leed the air out of the system c. allo w the accumulator to automatically adjust itself d. e xpect it to operate faster 13. T he pressure filter in a hydraulic system: a. filt ers the fluid returning to the tank b. is fitt ed down stream of the pump c. can be by pa ssed when maximum flow is required d. c lears the fluid as it leaves the reservoir 14. P ascal’s law states that: a. pr essure is inversely proportional to load b. li quid is compressible c. oxy gen can be used to charge the accumulators d. a pplied force acts equally in all directions 15. A cons tant pressure hydraulic pump is governed by: a. an a utomatic cut-out b. e ngine RPM c. a co ntrol piston d. a s wash plate that senses the fluid temperature ID: 5790 Questions 2 80 2Questions 16. A hi gh pressure hydraulic pump: a. needs a po sitive fluid supply b. d oes not need a positive fluid supply c. outlet pr essure is governed by centrifugal force d. d oes not need a cooling fluid flow 17. C ase drain filters are: a. fitt ed to prevent debris from the reservoir reaching the system b. de signed to allow hydraulic pump lubricating fluid to drain to atmosphere c. t o enable pump lubricating fluid to be used to monitor pump condition d. fitt ed in the reservoir outlet 18. T he purpose of an accumulator is to: a. r elieve excess pressure b. s tore fluid under pressure c. s tore compressed gas for tyre inflation d. r emove air from the system 19. W ith a one way check valve (NRV): a. flo w stops when input pressure is greater than output pressure b. flo w stops when the thermal relief valve off loads the hand pump c. flo w starts when input pressure is less than output pressure d. flo w stops when input pressure is less than output pressure 20. A r estrictor valve is physically fitted in the: a. U/C u p line and flap up line b. U/C d own line and flap up line c. U/C d own line and flap down line d. su pply line to the U/C retraction actuator 21. In th e case of a failure of a cut-out valve: a. a full flo w relief valve is fitted down stream of it b. a full flo w relief valve is fitted upstream of it c. a full flo w relief valve is not required d. the t erminal pressure will be controlled by adjusting the pump rpm 22. H ydraulic pressure of 3000 Pa is applied to an actuator, the piston area of which is 0.02 m2 and the same pressure is exerted on actuator whose area is 0.04 m2: a. bo th have the same force b. bo th jacks will move at the same speed c. the sm aller jack will exert a force of 600 N and the larger 1200 N d. the sm aller jack will exert a force of 60 N and the larger 120 N 23. A s eparator in an accumulator: a. isol ates the gas from the fluid b. r educes the size of the accumulator required c. r emoves the dissolved gases from the fluid d. m aintains the fluid level in the reservoir Order: 5422 2 81 Questions 2 Questions 24. In an oper ating hydraulic actuator the pressure of the fluid will be: a. gr eatest near to the actuator due to the load imposed on the jack b. gr eatest at the opposite end to the actuator due to the load imposed on the actuator c. high initi ally, falling as the actuator completes its travel d. the same a t all points 25. T he contents of the hydraulic fluid reservoir are checked. They indicate that the reservoir is at the full level. The system is then pressurized. The contents level will: a. f all below the “full” mark b. f all to a position marked ‘full accs charged’ c. r emain at the same level d. r ise above the “full” mark 26. A p ressure maintaining or priority valve: a. e nables ground operation of services when the engines are off b. is used t o ensure available pressure is directed to essential services c. is used t o control pressure to services requiring less than system pressure d. is used t o increase pressure in the system 27. A h ydraulic lock occurs: a. whe n the thermal RV operates b. whe n fluid by passes a system and returns to the tank c. whe n flow is stopped and the actuator is not able to move d. whe n fluid and air enters the cylinder and only fluid is allowed to bypass to the reservoir 28. In an en closed system pressure is felt: a. mo re at the piston head than the rest of the cylinder b. mo re at the cylinder end than the piston head c. mo re when the piston is moving than when it is stationary d. the same a t both ends between the piston and the cylinder head 29. A n on-return valve: a. can o nly be fitted if provided with a by-pass selector b. c loses if inlet pressure exceeds outlet pressure c. o pens if inlet pressure equals outlet pressure d. c loses if inlet pressure ceases 30. L ow gas pressure in accumulator causes: a. r apid jack movements b. no e ffect on system c. r apid pressure fluctuations while system is operating d. r apid and smooth operation of system ID: 5790 Questions 2 82 2Questions 31. H ammering in system: a. is no rmal and does not affect the system’s efficiency b. is ca used by pipe diameter fluctuations c. is an in dication that a further selection is necessary d. is detr imental to the system 32. T he specification of hydraulic fluids, mineral, vegetable or ester based is: a. alw ays distinguishable by taste and smell b. g enerally distinguishable by colour c. g enerally distinguishable by colour only if they are from the same manufacturer d. canno t be distinguished by colour alone 33. An A COV will: a. pr ovide an idling circuit when a selection is made b. e xtend the life of the accumulator c. pr ovide an idling circuit when the accumulator is fully charged d. e nsure the pump is always on load 34. T he purpose of a hydraulic fuse is to: a. allo w the parking brake to remain on overnight if required b. allo w a reduced pressure to the wheel brake system to prevent the wheels locking c. pr event over pressurizing the reservoir as altitude increases d. pr event total loss of system fluid if the brake pipeline is ruptured 35. A sh uttle valve will allow: a. the a ccumulator to be emptied after engine shut down b. the pr essure pump to off load when the system pressure is reached c. t wo independent pressure sources to operate a system/component d. high pr essure fluid to return to the reservoir if the Full Flow Relief Valve fails 36. T he purpose of a reservoir is to: a. co mpensate for temperature changes b. co mpensate for small leaks, expansion and jack displacement c. co mpensate for fluid loss d. minimi ze pump cavitation 37. Wh en the hydraulic system pressure is released: a. r eservoir air pressure will increase b. r eservoir fluid contents will rise if reservoir is lower than other components in the system c. r eservoir fluid contents will fall if reservoir is the highest point in the system d. r eservoir contents are dumped overboard Order: 5422 2 83 Questions 2 Questions 38. H ydraulic pressure in a closed system: a. is gr eater in pipes of larger diameters b. is gr eater in pipes of smaller diameters c. d oes not vary with pipe diameter d. v aries in direct proportion to the system demands 39. Sk ydrol hydraulic fluid: a. needs no s pecial safety precautions or treatment b. is fl ame resistant but is harmful to