=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces 1 18 1Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces Figure 1.18 Flight Deck and Passenger Cabin Windows Flight Deck Windows The flight deck windows fitted to pressurized aircraft must withstand both the loads of pressurization and impact loads from birdstrikes. They are constructed from toughened glass panels attached to each side of a clear vinyl interlayer. An electrically conducting coating, applied to the inside of the outer glass panel is used to heat the window. This prevents ice from forming and makes the window more resilient and able to withstand birdstrikes. The shock loading of a birdstrike impact is absorbed by the ability of the vinyl interlayer to stretch and deform should the impact be great enough to shatter the glass. Windscreens are attached to the frame by bolts passing through the edge of the windscreen. The aircraft, and therefore by implication the windscreen, must be capable of continued safe flight and landing after impact with a 4 lb (2 kg) bird when the velocity of the aeroplane is equal to VC (design cruise speed) at sea level, or 0.85VC at 8000 ft, which ever is the most critical. i.e. the windscreen must be able to withstand impact under these conditions without penetration. The vertical and horizontal angles of the windscreen are specified so that each pilot has a sufficiently extensive, clear and undistorted view so that they can safely perform any manoeuvres within the operating limitations of the aeroplane. Order: 5422 1 19 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces 1 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces Eye Reference Position Fixed markers or other guides are installed at each pilot station to enable the pilots to position themselves in their seats for optimum combination of outside visibility and instrument scan. The Eye Reference Position standardizes the visual attitude especially on approach and landing. Direct Vision (DV) Windows An opening window, normally referred to as a DV window must be provided in the control cabin to enable the pilot to land the aircraft safely should forward vision be restricted. Direct Vision windows slide open on a track that first lets the aft end of the window tilt in, then it slides along a track until it is opened. • The DV window can be used in the event of a failure of the demisting system. • Can be opened in flight if the aircraft is depressurized. • Depending on size, may also be used as an emergency exit. Figure 1.19 On light aircraft the flight compartment windows are generally perspex. Passenger Cabin Windows These are designed to be ‘fail-safe’ and normally have two panes of acrylic plastic mounted in an airtight rubber seal fitted into a metal window frame. The inner and outer panes are each capable of taking the full cabin pressurization load. If one pane fails the other will prevent loss of cabin pressure. Aircraft Doors Aircraft doors may be side or top opening. All passenger doors on pressurized aircraft are now of the plug type. When closed the internal pressure holds the door shut and locking pins engage with the frame structure to ensure that it cannot open in flight. To open a plug type door, it is pulled inwards and rotated sideways. Some open outwards for better access. They must be able to withstand the pressure loads if the aircraft is pressurized and have to have a means of preventing the aircraft being pressurized with the door unlocked. They must be easy to open in an emergency and usually have escape slides built into the construction of the door. A visual inspection panel is also required. Unpressurized aircraft have doors of a lighter construction Some aircraft have freight doors in the side of the fuselage, these usually hinge upwards and open by means of an electric motor or hydraulic power pack. The loads go through the hinges. ID: 5790 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces 1 20 1Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces Mainplanes (Wings) The wings support the weight of the aircraft in the air and so must have sufficient strength and stiffness to be able to do this. The strength and stiffness are determined by the thickness of the wing, with the thickness and type of construction used being dependent on the speed requirements of the aircraft. The types of construction are: • Biplane • Braced monoplane • Cantilever monoplane Biplane Very few biplanes fly at more than 200 knots in level flight and so the air loads are low, which means that the truss type design covered in fabric is satisfactory. The wing spars, interplane struts and bracing wires form a lattice girder of great rigidity which is highly resistant to bending and twisting. Figure 1.20 Braced Monoplane This type of design is also used on low speed aircraft. Figure 1.21 Order: 5422 1 21 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces 1 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces Cantilever Monoplane Figure 1.22 The mainplanes have to absorb the stresses due to lift and drag in flight and, if of cantilever design, their own weight when on the ground. This will be achieved by building the wing around one or more main load bearing members known as spars. These are constructed so that they will absorb the downwards bending stresses when the aircraft is on the ground. However when the aircraft is in flight the wing not only has to have the flexibility to bend upwards but needs enough stiffness to resist the torsional loads which will cause twisting. Figure 1.23 Typical spar sections Bending stress relief is also provided by using ‘Aileron Up-float’, mounting the engines on the wing and positioning the major fuel tanks within the wing. During flight the fuel in the wing tanks is the last to be used. ID: 5790 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces 1 22 1Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces This is particularly important at high All Up Mass (AUM) when the outer wing fuel tanks are full. As the fuel is used the weight of the aircraft decreases which reduces the required lift and therefore the bending moments/mass. Note: T he maximum bending moment occurs at the wing root. Figure 1.24 Wing torsion box structure Order: 5422 1 23 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces 1 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces Spars: the mainplanes may be of single spar, twin spar or multi-spar construction. A conventional structure would consist of front and rear spars, the metal skin attached to the spar booms, the ribs and stringers. These four main component parts form the ‘torsion box’. There is a form of construction that uses a series of small spars to replace the main spars. Other mainplane components are: Skin: takes the loads due to differences in air pressures and the mass and inertia of the fuel (if any) in the wing tanks. It generates direct stresses in a spanwise direction as a response to bending moments and also reacts against twisting (torsion) . Stringers: are spanwise members giving the wing rigidity by stiffening the skin in compression. Ribs: these maintain the aerofoil shape of the wings, support the spars, stringers and skin against buckling and pass concentrated loads from engines, landing gear and control surfaces into the skin and spars. The major structural components of the wings are generally manufactured from aluminium alloys with composite materials such as GRP (glass reinforced plastic), CRP (carbon reinforced plastic) and honeycomb structures used for fairings, control surfaces, flaps etc. Flutter and Resonance Flutter is an uncontrolled oscillation that can occur on fixed surfaces, such as the wing or on control surfaces such as the ailerons or elevators. Flutter is caused by the interaction of aerodynamic forces, inertia forces and the elastic properties of the surface or structure and can lead to the catastrophic failure of the structure. Most wings are very flexible and whilst on the ground can easily be moved up and down by hand. An aircraft that is in the cruise will be supported by its wings and they will be bent upwards. If the aircraft is subjected to a gust it will shake up and down with the wings flapping at a certain frequency. If the vibration is similar to that of the structure of the wing then it will begin to resonate. The resonance will amplify the flutter and may well lead to failure of the structure. Flutter must not occur within the normal flight operating envelope of the aircraft. Flutter can be prevented by mass balancing control surfaces to alter the moment of inertia of the surface and therefore the period of vibration (move the control surface C of G closer to the hinge). Poorly maintained aircraft, particularly those with excessive control surface backlash (play) or flexibility may mean that flutter could occur at speeds below the limit airspeed. Flutter of the mainplanes may be prevented by using the engines as mass balances, placing them on pylons forward of the wing leading edge. Stabilizing Surfaces There are many different designs of the empennage (tail unit) e.g. Conventional, T-tail, H-tail, V-tail