=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

deterministic risks or to conventional, non-complex syst ems may not provide adequate safety coverage for more complex syst ems. T hus, ot her assurance t echniques, such as development assurance utilising a combination of process assurance and ve rification coverage criteria, or structured analysis or assessment tec hniques applied at t he aeroplane level, if necessary, or at least across integrated or interacting systems , have been applied to t hese more complex systems. Their sy stematic use increas es confidence that errors in require ments or design, and integration or interaction effects have been adequat ely identified and corrected. (2) Considering t he above development s, as we ll as revisions made to the CS 25.1309, this AMC was revised to include new approaches, both qualitative and quantit ative, wh ich may be used to assist in determining safety requirements and establishing compliance wi th these requirements, and to reflect revisions in the rule, considering the w hole aeroplane and its sy stems. It also provides guidance for determining w hen, or if, particular analyses or development assurance actions should be conducted in t he frame of the development and safety assessment processes. Numerical values are assigned to the probabilistic terms included in the requirements for use in those cases where the impact of syst em failures is examined by quantitative methods of analysis. The analytical tools us ed in determining numerical values are intended to supplement, but not replace, qualitative methods based on engineering and operational judgement. 7. FAILURE CONDITION CLASSIFI CATIONS AND PROBABILITY TERMS a. Classifications. Failure Conditions may be classified according to the severity of their effects as follows: (1) No Safety Effect: Fa ilure Conditions that would have no effect on safety; for example, Fa ilure Conditions that would not affect the operational capability of the aeroplane or increase crew workload. (2) Minor: Fa ilure Conditions which w ould not s ignificant ly reduce aeroplane safety, and wh ich involve crew actions that are we ll wi thin their capabilities. Minor Failure Conditions may include, for example, a slight Annex to ED Decision 2007/010/R Amendment 3 ID: 5790 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces 1 34 1Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces CS-25 BOOK 2 1 4 - F - 2 reduction in safety margins or functional capabilities, a slight increase in crew wo rkload, such as routine flight plan changes, or some physical di scomfort to passengers or cabin crew. (3) Major: F ailure Conditions which w ould r educe t he capabilit y of t he aeroplane or t he ability of the crew to cope with adverse operating conditions to the extent that there would be, for example, a significant reduction in safety margins or functional capabilities, a signific ant increase in crew workload or in conditions impairing crew efficiency, or discomfort to the flight crew, or physical distress to passengers or cabin crew, possibly including injuries. (4) Hazardous: Failure Conditions, wh ich w ould reduce the c apability of t he aeroplane or the ability of the crew to c ope with adverse operating, conditions to the extent t hat there would be: (i) A large reduction in safety margins or func tional capabilit ies; (ii) Physical distress or excessive wo rkload such t hat t he f light crew cannot be relied upon to perform their tasks accurately or completely; or (iii) Ser ious or fat al injury to a r elatively small number of the occupants ot her than the flight crew. (5) Catastrophic: Fa ilure Conditions, wh ich w ould result in mult iple fatalities, usually wi th the loss of the aeroplane. (Note: A “Catastrophic” Failure Condition was defined in previ ous versions of the rule and the advisory material as a Failure Condition wh ich would prevent continued sa fe flight and landing.) b. Qualitative Probability Terms. When us ing qualitative analyses to determine com pliance wi th CS 25.1309(b), the following descriptions of the probability terms used in CS 25.1309 and this AMC have become commonly accepted as aids to engineering judgement: (1) Probable Fa ilure Conditions are those anticipat ed to occur one or more times during the entire operational life of each aeroplane. (2) Remote Fa ilure Conditions are those unlikely to o ccur to each aeroplane during i ts tot al life, but which may occur several times when considering the total operational life of a number of aeroplanes of t he type. (3) Extremely Remote Fa ilure Conditions are those not anticipated to occur to each aeroplane during its total life but which may occur a few times when considering t he total operational life of all aeroplanes of the type. (4) Extremely Improbable Fa ilure Conditions are those so unlikely that they are not anticipated to occur during the entire operational life of all aeroplanes of one type. c. Quantitative Probability Terms. When us ing quantitative analyses to help determine compliance wi th CS 25.1309(b), the following descriptions of the probability terms used in this r equirement and this AMC have become commonly accepted as aids to engineering judgement. They are expre ssed in terms of a cceptable ranges for the Average Probability Per Flight Hour. (1) Probability Ranges. (i) Probable Failure Conditions are those having an Average Probability Per Flight H our greater than of the order of 1 x 10 -5. (ii) Remote Failure Conditions are those having an Average Probability Per Flight Hour of t he order of 1x 10 -5 or less, but greater than of the order of 1 x 10 -7. (iii) Extremely Remote Failure Conditions are those having an Average Probability Per F light Hour of t he order of 1x 10-7 or less, but greater t han of the order of 1 x 10 -9. Annex to ED Decision 2007/010/R Amendment 3 Order: 5422 1 35 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces 1 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces ID: 5790 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces 1 36 1Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces CS-25 BOOK 2 2-F-43 c. The safety objectives associated with Catastrophi c Failure Conditions, may be satisfied by demonstrating that: (1) No single failure will result in a Catastrophic Failure Condition; and (2) Each Catastrophic Failure C ondition is Extremely Improbable. d. Exceptionally, for paragraph 8c(2) above of this AM C, if it is not technol ogically or economically practicable to meet the numerical cr iteria for a Catastrophic Failure Condition, the safety objective may be met by accomplishing all of the following: (1) Utilising well proven methods for the design and construction of the system; and Figure 2: Relationship Between Probability and Severity of Failure Condition Effect on Aeroplane No effect on operational capabilities or safety Slight reduction in functional capabilities or safety margins Significant reduction in functional capabilities or safety margins Large reduction in functional capabilities or safety margins Normally with hull loss Effect on Occupants excluding Flight Crew Inconvenience Physical discomfort Physical distress, possibly including injuries Serious or fatal injury to a small number of passengers or cabin crew Multiple fatalities Effect on Flight Crew No effect on flight crew Slight increase in workload Physical discomfort or a significant increase in workload Physical distress or excessive workload impairs ability to perform tasks Fatalities or incapacitation Allowable Qualitative Probability No Probability Requirement <---Probable---- > <----Remote---- > Extremely <------------------> Remote Extremely Improbable Allowable Quantitative Probability: Average Probability per Flight Hour on the Order of: No Probability Requirement <------------------> <10-3 Note 1 <------------------> <10-5 <------------------> <10-7 <10-9 Classification of Failure Conditions No Safety Effect <-----Minor------ > <-----Major------ > <--Hazardous--> Catastrophic Note 1: A numerical probability range is provided here as a reference. The applicant is not required to perform a quantitative analysis, nor substantiate by such an analysis, that this numerical criteria has been met for Minor Failure Conditions. Current transport category aeroplane products are regarded as meet ing this standard simply by using current commonly-accepted industry practice. Annex to ED Decision 2007/010/R Amendment 3 Order: 5422 1 37 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces 1 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces CS-25 BOOK 2 2-F-44 (2) Determining the Average Probability per Flight Hour of each Failure Condition using structured methods, such as Fault Tree Analysis, Markov Analysis, or Dependency Diagrams; and (3) Demonstrating that the sum of the Average Probabilities per Flight Hour of all Catastrophic Failure Conditions caused by system s is of the order of 10 -7 or less (See paragraph 6a for background). 9. COMPLIANCE WITH CS 25.1309. This paragraph describes specific means of compliance for CS 25.1309. The applicant should obtain early concurrence of the certification authority on the choice of an accept able means of compliance. a. Compliance with CS 25.1309(a). (1) Equipment covered by 25.1309(a)(1) must be show n to function properly when installed. The aeroplane operating and environmental conditions over which proper functioning of the equipment, systems, and installation is required to be considered includes the full normal operating envelope of the aeroplane as defined by the Aeroplane Flight Manual together with any modification to that envelope