=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

If they are fitted to the cockpit control they may be arranged so that it is impossible to open the throttle until the control locks are removed. It should be noted that with servo operated control surfaces, movement of the cockpit controls is possible with external control locks in position. Similarly with a spring tab assisted control, some movement of the cockpit control would be possible with external locks fitted, but the control would feel very stiff. Duplicate Inspection of Controls Because of the vital importance of the control system a procedure for duplication of inspection of the control system is laid down in maintenance regulations. It requires that if the control system is disturbed in any way, the system shall be inspected separately by two qualified persons before the aircraft is permitted to fly. In some circumstances the second of these persons may be the pilot. Duplicate inspection procedures are given at Appendix A. Take-off Configuration Warning The take-off configuration warning is armed when the aircraft is on the ground and the forward thrust levers are advanced for take-off. An intermittent take-off warning sounds if some or all of the following conditions exist: • The stabilizer trim is outside the safe range. • The trailing edge flaps are not in the take-off position. • Leading edge high lift devices are not in the take-off position. • Speed brake lever not in the down position. • All doors are not fully locked. • Flight controls are not fully unlocked (aircraft fitted with internal control locks) The warning indication is cancelled when the incorrect setting is corrected. A steady warning horn alerts the pilots when the aircraft is in landing configuration and any landing gear is not down and locked. The landing gear warning horn is also activated by flap, speed and thrust lever position. ID: 5790 Flight Control Systems 7 156 7Flight Control Systems High Lift Devices Most jet transport aircraft are fitted with high lift devices on both leading and trailing edges which increase the lift coefficients (CL) to enable the aircraft to generate large amounts of lift at low speed for take-off and landing, this reduces the stall speed. Smaller aircraft are usually just fitted with trailing edge flaps. Trailing Edge Flaps There are various types of flap design which all increase both lift and drag in varying amounts. The most popular type for light aircraft is the plain or camber flap with slotted Fowler flaps widely used on large transport aircraft. See Figure 7.7. Figure 7.7 Trailing edge flaps A typical trailing edge flap system is shown in Figure 7.8. Order: 5422 7 157 Flight Control Systems 7 Flight Control Systems Operation of the flight deck selector produces an input to the slat/flap computers (2 of) which control, monitor and test the operation of the flaps. An electrically controlled hydro- mechanical power unit drives the transmission which moves the flaps. The position of the flaps is indicated on the cockpit display and the flaps are protected against asymmetric operation, runaway, uncommanded movement and overspeed. Torque limiting brakes are fitted to stop the operation if excess torque is sensed. The flap Load Relief System (LRS) or load limiter retracts the flaps to an intermediate position if the airspeed exceeds a predetermined speed and automatically returns them to the selected position if the airspeed drops below its predetermined limit. In the event of failure of the main control system, emergency operation of the flaps may be achieved by an alternate hydraulic supply or an electric motor which drives the trailing edge drive unit (gearbox) which then operates the same gear train. Figure 7.8 Trailing edge flaps Fig 1.8 Trailing Edge Flaps ID: 5790 Flight Control Systems 7 158 7Flight Control Systems Leading Edge Devices These may consist of slats, Kreuger flaps or variable camber flaps or some combination as on the B747 which uses Kreuger flaps for the inboard section and variable camber for the outboard. Leading edge flaps and slats are operated by hydraulic power or by air turbine motors and controlled by operation of the flap lever. The three types of leading edge devices are shown in Figure 7.10. Some systems use hydraulic motors that power screw jacks to move the surfaces. These systems require mechanical locks to prevent creep of the surfaces when hydraulic power is removed. Leading edge flaps are hinged surfaces that extend by rotating downward from the lower surface of the wing leading edge. Slats are sections of the wing leading edge that extend forward to form a sealed or slotted leading edge depending on the trailing edge flap setting. The leading edge flaps and slats are retracted when the trailing edge flaps are retracted. The leading edge flaps extend fully and slats extend to the midway position (depending on aircraft type) when the trailing edge flaps move into the intermediate position, and when the trailing edge flaps are fully lowered, the slats extend fully. The sequence is reversed when the flaps are retracted. Alternate hydraulic operation of the leading edge devices is a standby hydraulic system or, in the case of those powered by air turbine motors, an electrical standby system. The leading devices will then fully extend. Depending on the aircraft type it may or may not be possible to retract the leading edge devices by the alternate system. An autoslat system may be incorporated that will automatically extend the slats from the intermediate position to the fully extend position. This system will operate if the aircraft approaches the stall angle of attack and the slats are not fully extended. Typical indications for flap and slat/leading edge flap positions are shown below, on the left an electronic display and on the right an analogue display from an older aircraft. Figure 7.9 Typical electronic and analogue position indicators Figure 1.9 Typical Electronic and Analogue Position Indicators Order: 5422 7 159 Flight Control Systems 7 Flight Control Systems Figure 7.10 Leading edge flaps and slats Fig 1.10 Leading Edge Flaps and Slats ID: 5790 Flight Control Systems 7 160 7Flight Control Systems Speed Brakes Speed brakes may consist of flight spoilers and ground spoilers. The speed brake lever controls a spoiler mixer, which positions the flight spoiler control units, Power Control Units (PCU’s), and a ground spoiler control valve. The surfaces are actuated by hydraulic power supplied to the PCUs or to actuators on each surface. Ground spoilers operate only on the ground, due to a ground spoiler shut-off valve which remains closed until the main landing gear operates a ‘weight on’ switch. With lateral controls in neutral, application of the speed brakes will cause the flight spoilers to rise equally. When speed brakes are applied on the ground, the ground spoilers will also rise. Moving the speed brake control lever will provide an input to the spoiler mixer via a mechanical system. The spoiler mixer conveys the speed brake signals to a ground spoiler control valve and to the flight spoiler actuators. Ground spoiler shut-off valve, fitted in the hydraulic system downstream of the spoiler control valve, is operated by a ‘weight on’ switch. Speed brake control may also be applied by an electric speed brake lever actuator. When ‘armed’, the actuator will drive the speed brake lever to the ‘full up‘ position, raising the flight and ground spoilers when the landing gear wheels rotate on touchdown. If the engine thrust levers are opened up again on the landing run, the actuator will sense the aborted landing and will lower the flight and ground spoilers. Figure 7.11 Typical speed brake/lift dumper systems Figure 1.11 Typical Speed Brake/Lift Dumper System Order: 5422 7 161 Flight Control Systems 7 Flight Control Systems Typical Flight Spoiler System Two flight spoilers are located on the upper surfaces of each wing. The outboard spoilers are powered by one hydraulic system, whilst the inboard spoilers are powered by a second system. Hydraulic pressure shut-off valves are controlled by the two flight spoiler switches. The flight spoilers are hydraulically actuated in response to movement of the aileron controls. A spoiler mixer, connected to the aileron control system, controls the hydraulic PCUs on each spoiler panel to provide spoiler movement proportional to aileron movement. Flight spoilers rise on the wing with the ‘up-going’ aileron and remain retracted on the wing with the ‘down- going’ aileron. Figure 7.12 Speed brake selector Courtesy of the Boeing Company ID: 5790 Flight Control Systems 7 162 7Flight Control Systems Spoiler Operation Aileron control wheel rotation transmits roll control signals to the aileron Power Flying Control Units through the captain’s control cables. Aileron Power Flying Control Unit movement actuates the ailerons and simultaneously sends a roll control signal to the spoiler mixer. Rotation of the spoiler mixer output mechanism actuates the spoiler control valves to raise the spoilers on the down-going wing (up-going aileron). Vertical rotation of the spoiler actuators provides the follow-up to cancel the control valves input when the desired spoiler deflection has been achieved. This follow-up allows the flight spoilers to be