=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

no fuel in the tanks. This limit value is called Maximum Zero Fuel Mass (MZFM). Figure 1.29 MZFM Heavy Landings Aircraft landing gear is designed to withstand landing at a particular aircraft weight and vertical descent velocity (the maximum is 10 ft/sec or 3.15 m/sec at maximum landing weight). If either of these parameters are exceeded during a landing then damage may have been caused to the landing gear or supporting structure and these loads can be transmitted to the fuselage and mainplanes. Overstressing may also be caused by landing with drift or landing in an abnormal attitude, e.g. nose or tail wheels striking the runway before the main wheels. Some aircraft are fitted with heavy landing indicators, which give a visual indication that specific “g“ forces have been exceeded but in all cases of suspected heavy landings the flight crew should give details of the aircraft weight, fuel distribution, landing condition and whether any noises indicative of structural failure were heard. The damage which may be expected following a heavy landing would normally be concentrated around the landing gear, its supporting structure in the wings or fuselage, the wing and tailplane attachments and the engine mountings. Secondary damage may be found on the fuselage upper and lower skin and structure, depending on the configuration and loading of the aircraft. Order: 5422 1 31 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces 1 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces On some aircraft it is specified that, if no damage is found in the primary areas, the secondary areas need not be inspected; but if damage is found in the primary areas, then the inspection must be continued. The precise details vary from aircraft to aircraft so reference must be made to the appropriate maintenance manual. Nose Wheel Landing There is a danger of structural damage with a nose wheel landing. This will usually affect the front pressure bulkhead in the fuselage and the nose wheel strut. In addition to defects in the strut there may also be damage to the drag link. There is also a possibility of nose wheel collapse Tail Strike There is a higher risk of a tail strike on an approach and landing below V ref and also over rotation of any flare. This may lead to structural damage to the empennage and the rear pressure bulkhead in the fuselage. ID: 5790 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces 1 32 1Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces Failure Statistics The following pages are an extract from the EASA CS-25 document which details the EASA policy on Failure Conditions. CS-25 BOOK 2 2-F-39 6. BACKGROUND a. General. For a number of years aeroplane systems were evaluated to specific requirements, to the "single fault" criterion, or to the fail-safe design concept. As later-generation aeroplanes developed, more safety-critical functions were required to be performed, which generally resulted in an in crease in the complexity of the systems designed to perform these functions. The potential hazards to t he aeroplane and its occupants which could arise in the ev ent of loss of one or more functions provided by a system or that system's malfunction had to be considered, as also did t he interaction between systems performing different functions. This has led to the general principle that an inverse relationship should exist between the probability of a Failure Condition and its effect on the aeroplane and/or its occ upants (see Figure 1). In assessing the acceptability of a design it was recognised that rational probability values would have to be established. Historical evidence indi cated that the probabilit y of a serious accident due to operational and airframe-related causes was approxim ately one per million hours of fligh t. Furthermore, about 10 percent of the total were attributed to Failure Conditions caused by the aeroplane's systems. It seems reasonable that serious accidents caused by systems should not be a llowed a higher probability than this in new aeroplane designs. It is reasonable to expect that the probability of a serious accident from all such Failure Conditions be not greater than one per ten million flight hours or 1 x 10-7 per flight hour for a newly designed aeroplane. The difficulty with this is that it is not possible to sa y whether the target has been met until all the systems on the aeroplane are collectively analysed numerically. For this reason it was assumed, arbi trarily, that there are about one hundred potential Failure Conditions in an aeropl ane, which could be Catastrophic. The target allowable Average Probability per Flight Hour of 1 x 10 -7 was thus apportioned equally among these Failure Conditions, resulting in an alloca tion of not greater than 1 x 10 -9 to each. The upper limit for the Average Probability per Flight Hour for Catastrophic Failure Conditions would be 1 x 10-9 , which establishes an approximate probability value for the term "Extremely Impr obable". Failure C onditions having less severe effects could be relatively more likely to occur. b. Fail-Safe Design Concept. The Part 25 airworthiness standards are based on, and incorporate, the objectives and principles or techniques of the fail-safe design concept, which cons iders the effects of failures and combinations of failures in defining a safe design. (1) The following basic objectives pertaining to failures apply: (i) In any system or subsystem, the failure of any single element, component, or connection during any one flight should be assumed, regardle ss of its probability. Such single fa ilures should not be Catastrophic. (ii) Subsequent failures during the same flight, whether detected or latent, and combinations thereof, should also be assumed, unless their joint probability with the first failure is shown to be extremely improbable. (2) The fail-safe design concept uses the following design principles or techniques in order to ensure a safe design. The use of only one of these principles or techniques is seldom adequate. A combination of two or more is usually needed to provide a fail-safe design; i.e. to ensure that Major Failure Conditions are Remote, Hazardous Failure Conditions are Extremely Remote, and Catastrophic Failure Conditions are Extremely Improbable: (i) Designed Integrity and Quality, including Life Limits , to ensure intended functi on and prevent failures. Annex to ED Decision 2007/010/R Amendment 3 Order: 5422 1 33 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces 1 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces CS-25 BOOK 2 0 4 - F - 2 (ii) Redundancy or Backup Systems to enable continued function after any single (or other defined number of) failure(s); e.g., two or more engines, hy draulic syst ems, flight c ontrol syst ems, etc. (iii) Isolation and/or Segregation of Systems, Components, and Elements so that the failure of one does not cause the failure of another. (iv) Proven Reliability so that multiple, independent f ailures are unlikely to occur during t he same flight. (v) Failure Warning or Indication to provide detection. (vi) Flight crew Procedures specifying corrective action for use a fter failure detection. (vii) Checkability: the capability to check a component 's condition. (viii) Designed Fa ilure Effect Limits, including the capability to sustain damage, to limit the safety impact or effects of a failure. (ix) Designed F ailure Path to control and direct the effects of a failure in a way that limits its safety impact. (x) Margins or Factors of Safety to allow for any undefined or unforeseeable adverse conditions. (xi) Error-Tolerance that considers adverse effects of foreseeable errors during the aeroplane's design, test, manufacture, operation, and maintenance. c. Highly Integrated Systems. (1) A concern arose regarding the efficiency and coverage of the techniques used for assessing safety aspects of highly integrated sy stems that perform complex and interrelat ed functions, particularly through the use of electronic technology and software based techniques. T he concern is t hat design and analysis techniques traditionally applied to deterministic risks or to conventional, non-complex syst ems may not provide adequate safety coverage for more complex syst ems. T hus, ot her assurance t echniques, such as development assurance utilising a combination of process assurance and ve rification coverage criteria, or structured analysis or assessment tec hniques applied at t he aeroplane level, if necessary, or at least across integrated or interacting systems , have been applied to t hese more complex systems. Their sy stematic use increas es confidence that errors in require ments or design, and integration or interaction effects have been adequat ely identified and corrected. (2) Considering t he above development s, as we ll as revisions made to the CS 25.1309, this AMC was revised to include new approaches, both qualitative and quantit ative, wh ich may be used to assist in determining safety requirements and establishing compliance wi th these requirements, and to reflect revisions in the rule, considering the w hole aeroplane and its sy stems. It also provides guidance for determining w hen, or if, particular analyses or development assurance actions should be conducted in t he frame of the development and safety assessment processes. Numerical values are assigned to the