=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

protects the tube from damage, maintains the shape of the tyre, transmits braking and provides a wearing surface. Figure 5.1 The make up of a tyre Reproduced by kind permission of Dunlop Aircraft Tyres Ltd Tyre Covers The tyre cover consists of a casing made of rubber which is reinforced with plies of cotton, rayon or nylon cords. The cords are not woven, but arranged parallel in single layers and held together by a thin film of rubber which prevents cords of adjacent plies from cutting one another as the tyre flexes in use. During the construction of the cover, the plies are fitted in pairs and set so that the cords of adjacent plies are at 90 degrees to one another in the case of bias (cross-ply) tyres and from bead to bead at approximately 90 degrees to the centre line of the tyre in radial tyres. To absorb and distribute load shocks, and protect the casing from concussion damage, two narrow plies embedded in thick layers of rubber are situated between the casing and the tread, these special plies are termed breaker strips. ID: 5790 Aircraft Tyres 5 120 5Aircraft Tyres The casing is retained on the rim of the wheel by interlocking the plies around inextensible steel wire coils to form ply overlaps, this portion of the cover is known as the bead. The tyre manufacturers give each tyre a ply rating. This rating does not relate directly to the number of plies in the tyre, but is the index of the strength of the tyre. For example, a 49 × 17 size tyre with a ply rating of 32 only has 18 plies. The wire coils are made rigid by bonding all the wires together with rubber, to ensure a strong bond, each wire is copper plated. The bead coil is also reinforced by winding with strips of fabric before the apex and filler strips are applied. The apex strips, which are made of rubber and located by rubberized fabric filler strips, provide greater rigidity and less acute changes of section at the bead. They also provide a greater bonding area. Finally, the bead portion is protected on the outside by chafer strips of rubberized fabric. Figure 5.1 illustrates the above points. The Regions of the Tyre To assist in describing the cover, it is divided into regions or sections as illustrated in Figure 5.2. The tread of the tyre is situated in the crown and shoulder section, and it should be noted that the term ‘tread’ is applied irrespective of whether the rubber is plain and smooth, or moulded on a block pattern. The most popular tread pattern is that termed Ribbed, which has circumferential grooves around the tyre to assist in water dispersion and to help prevent aquaplaning (hydroplaning). The grooves also help to improve traction and contact grip between the tread and the runway surface. Not seen so frequently now, but still termed the all weather pattern, is the Diamond tread pattern. Nose wheel tyres, particularly those fitted to aircraft with the engines mounted on the rear fuselage, may have a chine moulded onto the shoulder. This is to direct water away from the engine intakes and so prevent flameouts due to water ingestion. A nose wheel tyre fitted to a single wheel installation will have a chine moulded onto both sides of the tyre. Figure 5.2 The regions of the tyre Figure 3.2 The Regions of the Tyre Order: 5422 5 121 Aircraft Tyres 5 Aircraft Tyres Inner Tubes An inner tube is manufactured by an extruding machine, which forces a compound of hot rubber through a circular die, thus producing a continuous length of tubing. The requisite length is cut off, the ends are then butt welded and a valve is fitted. The tube is placed in a mould, inflated and vulcanized, so producing the finished tube to the required dimensions. During braking, excessive heat is generated in some types of brake unit, which could cause damage to a standard base tube. Depending on the design of the wheel and the type of brake unit, the tube may have a standard, thickened, or cord reinforced base. When renewing a tube it must be replaced by one of the same type. The Inflation Valve The tube is inflated through an inflation valve, in which the stem is attached to the rubber base by direct vulcanization, and the rubber is vulcanized to the tube, renewal of the inflation valve is not permitted. Each inflation valve is fitted with a Schrader valve core which operates as a non-return valve. The valve core is not considered to be a perfect seal , therefore, the inflation valve must always be fitted with a valve cap, the valve cap also prevents dirt entering the valve. The older type of valve core has a spring made of brass, but the modern type is fitted with a stainless steel spring. Tubeless Tyres These tyres are similar in construction to that of a conventional cover for use with a tube, but an extra rubber lining is vulcanized to the inner surface and the underside of the beads. This lining, which retains the gas pressure, forms an gas tight seal on the wheel rim. The gas seal depends on a wedge fit between the underside of the tyre bead and the taper of the wheel rim on which the beads are mounted. The inflation valve is of the usual type, but is fitted with a rubber gasket and situated in the wheel rim. The advantage of tubeless tyres over conventional tyres include the following: • The gas pressure in the tyre is maintained over longer periods because the lining is unstretched. • Penetration by a nail or similar sharp object will not cause rapid loss of pressure because the unstretched lining clings to the objects and prevents loss of nitrogen. • The tyre is more resistant to impact blows and rough treatment because of the increased thickness of the casing, and the lining distributes the stresses and prevents them from causing local damage. • Lack of an inner tube means an overall saving of approximately 7.5% in weight. • Inflation valve damage by creep (slippage) is eliminated. ID: 5790 Aircraft Tyres 5 122 5Aircraft Tyres Tyre Pressures The difference in landing speeds, loading, landing surfaces and landing gear construction of aircraft make it necessary to provide a wide range of tyre sizes, types of tyre construction and inflation pressures. There are four main categories of tyre pressures, which are as follows: • Low Pressure. Designed to operate at a pressure of 25 - 35 psi (1.73 - 2.42 bar), used on grass surfaces. • Medium Pressure. Operates at a pressure of 35 - 70 psi, (2.42 - 4.83 bar) and is used on grass surfaces or on medium firm surfaces without a consolidated base. • High Pressure. Operates at a pressure of 70 - 90 psi, (4.83 - 6.21 bar) and is suitable for concrete runways. • Extra High Pressure. Operates at pressures of over 90 psi (some tyres of this type are inflated to 350 psi)(6.21 - 24.2 bar), the tyre is suitable for concrete runways. Tyre Markings The letters ECTA or Conducting are used to indicate a tyre that has extra carbon added to the rubber compound to make it electrically conducting to provide earthing (grounding) between the aircraft and ground. The size of a tyre is marked on its sidewall and includes the following information: • The outside diameter in inches or millimetres. • The nominal width in inches or millimetres. • The inside diameter in inches. The ply rating, the index of the tyre’s strength, is also marked on the sidewall. Normally it is shown as an abbreviation, e.g. 16PR, but occasionally it is shown in full as “16 PLY RATING”. The speed rating of the tyre denotes the maximum rated ground speed in mph to which the tyre has been tested and approved. This is embossed on the sidewall of the tyre. The rating takes account of pressure altitude, ambient temperature and wind component, enabling the maximum take-off mass, MTOM, the tyres can sustain to be calculated. Green or grey dots painted on the sidewall of the tyre indicate the position of the “awl” vents. Awl vents prevent pressure being trapped between the plies which would cause disruption of the tyre carcase if it was exposed to the low pressures experienced during high altitude flight. A red dot or triangle indicates the lightest part of the tyre. If this is placed opposite the valve during tyre fitting then it assists in balancing the wheel assembly. The letters DRR printed in the code panel and the words “ REINFORCED TREAD” printed on the sidewall are indicative of the fact that the tyre has a layer of fabric woven into the tread which may become visible during normal wear. This layer must not be confused with the casing cords. Order: 5422 5 123 Aircraft Tyres 5 Aircraft Tyres