=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

power plants and cargo compartments. It has similar characteristics to Halon 1211 except that it has a vapour spray and is more difficult to direct. NOTE: BCF & B TM are part of a group of Halogenated Hydrocarbons commonly called FREON. Others in the group have long names and are also Halon 1011, 104 & 1201. Halon 104 is no longer used as it is toxic and the other two are not recommended for use in aircraft. Water or Water Glycol This is stored in red containers and used for hand held portable appliances. It can be used in passenger cabins for combatting fires involving domestic materials. It must not be used on fires which involve electrical equipment or liquids , the glycol is an antifreeze agent which permit operation of the extinguishers at temperatures as low as -20°C. Dry Chemical (Dry Powder) This is stored in a blue or red container with a blue label and occasionally called ‘Dry Powder’. The use of this agent in crew compartments or passenger cabins of pressurized aircraft is not permitted (JAR-25). However some light aircraft may have these and their use should be avoided if at all possible as visibility would be restricted and it can render inoperative otherwise serviceable electrical equipment. The agent is a non-toxic powder i.e. potassium bicarbonate, similar to talcum powder. It is very effective against fires involving flammable liquids, wood, fabric and paper. It should not be used on electrical fires, and is best known for its application against wheel and brake fires. As a powder it has no cooling effect and this reduces the danger of wheel explosions or the distortion of the brakes or wheels. Ground Use Extinguishers In addition to the dry powder extinguisher, foam (cream or red with a cream label), water (red), carbon dioxide, BCF and sand are available for ground use. Carbon Dioxide (CO2) Stored in black or red containers with a black label. It is non-corrosive and extinguishes the flame by dissipating the oxygen in the immediate area. From a standpoint of toxicity and corrosion it is the safest agent to use and for many years was the most widely used. If handled improperly it can cause mental confusion and suffocation. It requires a stronger container than most other agents due to its variation in vapour pressure with changes of temperature. The use of this agent in aircraft is not permitted . Carbon dioxide may be used against most fires and is particularly useful against engine fires as it will extinguish the fire without damaging the engine. This agent may be used as a substitute for dry chemical against wheel and brake fires but it should not be sprayed directly on to the wheel but alongside to blanket the wheel with a CO2 cloud. Foam The principal extinguishant for use on flammable liquid fires and propane, it blankets the flames by excluding oxygen. Water Used on combustible material fires, it extinguishes by cooling. It must not be used on electrical, fuel or brake fires. ID: 5790 Fire Detection and Protection 15 304 15Fire Detection and Protection Sand Useful for containing metal fires such as magnesium or titanium where liquids will make matters worse. Hand Held Extinguishers The regulations state that the number of hand held extinguishers required will be governed by the passenger capacity as follows : 7 to 30 = 1. 31 to 60 = 2. 61 to 200 = 3. 201 to 300 = 4. 301 to 400 = 5. 401 to 500 = 6. 501 to 600 = 7. 601 to 700 = 8. At least two of the extinguishers in the passenger compartment of an aircraft with a maximum seating configuration of 61 seats or more must be BCF. There must be at least one additional BCF hand extinguisher conveniently located in the flight deck. Fire Systems and Compartments There are three types of system in general aircraft use: • Fixed System. This consists of containers holding the extinguishing agent fixed to the structure and a system of distribution pipes and controls provided for the protection of power plants and where applicable the auxiliary power units. NOTE: O n large aircraft, fixed systems may also be provided for the protection of landing gear bays and baggage compartments. • Portable System. This refers to the several types of hand operated fire extinguishers provided to combat any outbreak of fire in flight crew compartments or passenger cabins. • Mixed Systems. An arrangement used in some aircraft for the protection of baggage and service departments, it consists of a system of distribution pipes and spray rings which are mounted in the appropriate compartment, complemented by hand held or mounted fire extinguishers discharged through special adapter points. Fire Compartments (JAR-25) The cockpit and passenger cabin are designated Class A compartments, meaning that a fire may be visually detected, reached and combatted by a crew member. The engines are Class C compartments, and fire detection and warning is provided. There are five types of cargo compartments: Class A to E. Class A and B crew members may reach and combat a source of fire; Class C or D which crew members cannot reach the source of fire. A Class E cargo compartment is one on aeroplanes only used for the carriage of cargo. Class A Compartments comply with the following: • They provide for visual detection of smoke. • They are accessible in flight. • There is a fire extinguisher available. Order: 5422 15 305 Fire Detection and Protection 15 Fire Detection and Protection The cargo and baggage compartments are classified ‘B’ when complying with the following: • Sufficient access provided while in flight to enable a member of the crew to move by hand all of the contents; and to reach effectively all parts of the compartment with a hand held extinguisher. • When the access provisions are being used, no hazardous quantity of smoke, flames or extinguishing agent will enter any compartment occupied by the crew or passengers. • Each compartment shall be equipped with a separate system of an approved type of Smoke or Fire Detector to give a warning at the pilot’s station. • Hand fire extinguishers shall be readily available for use in all compartments of this category. Class C compartments comply with the following: • There is a separate Smoke or Fire Detector system to give warning at the pilot or flight engineer station. • There is an approved built in Fire Extinguishing System controlled from the pilot or flight engineer station. • Means provided to exclude hazardous quantities of smoke, flames, or other noxious gases from entering into any compartment occupied by the crew or passengers. • Ventilation and draughts controlled within each compartment so that the extinguishing agent used can control any fire likely to occur in the compartment. Class D no longer used Class E compartments: • Equipped with a separate system of an approved type of smoke or fire detector. • Means provided to shut off the ventilating air flow to or within the compartment. Controls for such means shall be accessible to the flight crew from within the cockpit. • Means provided to exclude hazardous quantities of smoke, flames, or noxious gases from entering the cockpit. • Required crew emergency exits accessible under all cargo loading conditions. ID: 5790 Fire Detection and Protection 15 306 15Fire Detection and Protection Extract from EU-OPS Subpart K The following information in EU-OPS 1 Subpart K is the requirement for the carriage of safety equipment and the requirement for emergency oxygen is recommended reading for all students. Note: The information contained in the following extract was correct at the time of going to print but it should be remembered that EU-OPS is subject to regular amendment. 2. The amount of supplemental oxygen for sustenance required for a particular operation shall be determined on the basis of flight altitudes and flight duration, consistent with the operating procedures established for each opera- tion in the Operations Manual and with the routes to be flown, and with the emergency procedures specified in the Operations Manual. 3. An aeroplane intended to be operated at pressure altitudes above 10 000 ft shall be provided with equipment capable of storing and dispensing the oxygen supplies required. (b) Oxygen supply requirements 1. Flight crew members. Each member of the flight crew on flight deck duty shall be supplied with supplemental oxygen in accordance with Appendix 1. If all occupants of flight deck seats are supplied from the flight crew source of oxygen supply then they shall be considered as flight crew members on flight deck duty for the purpose of oxygen supply. 2. Cabin crew members, additional crew members and passengers. Cabin crew members and passengers shall be sup- plied with oxygen in accordance with Appendix 1. Cabin crew members carried in addition to the minimum num- ber of cabin crew members required, and additional crew members, shall be considered as passengers for the purpose of oxygen supply. OPS 1.780 Crew