=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

altitude. The gauge indicates the pressure in the cylinder in psi and the flow indicator is calibrated in terms of cabin altitude. Flow indicators show that oxygen is flowing through the regulator. They do not show how much is flowing or if the user is being supplied with sufficient oxygen. Diluter Demand System This type of system is provided in most aircraft for flight crew use and is separate and additional to the passenger system. The system is shown in Figure 13.2. Oxygen is diluted with air and supplied as demanded by the user’s respiration cycle and the oxygen regulator. There is a mask connection point for each crew member and the supernumerary crew position. A typical regulator operates as follows:- • With the oxygen supply ‘ ON’ and ‘NORMAL’ oxygen selected, diluted oxygen will be supplied to the crew member’s mask as he/she inhales. As the cabin altitude increases and cabin air pressure decreases the percentage oxygen increases until, at 32 000 ft cabin altitude, 100% oxygen is supplied. • 100% oxygen will be supplied, regardless of altitude, if the crew member selects 100% O2 on the regulator control panel. • Selecting ‘ EMERGENCY’ on the regulator will provide protection against the inhalation of smoke and harmful gases by supplying 100% O2 at a positive pressure. • When ‘TEST’ is selected, oxygen at a high positive pressure is supplied to check masks for fit and other equipment for leakage. ID: 5790 Aircraft Oxygen Equipment 13 264 13Aircraft Oxygen Equipment Figure 13.2 Figure 13.3 Order: 5422 13 265 Aircraft Oxygen Equipment 13 Aircraft Oxygen Equipment Figure 13.4 Narrow Panel System, Normal Operation For normal operation the supply lever is set to “on”, the oxygen selection lever to “normal” and the emergency lever is in the “off” position. When the user inhales a differential pressure is created across the demand diaphragm, causing the demand valve to open supplying oxygen to the mask. This pressure differential exists during the user’s inhalation cycle. After passing through the demand valve , the oxygen is mixed with air that enters through the air inlet port. The mixture ratio is determined by an aneroid controlled air metering valve which provides a high air ratio at low altitudes and a high oxygen ratio at high altitudes. Airflow begins at the same time as oxygen flow through the air inlet valve. Moving the oxygen selector lever to 100% cuts off the air supply through the inlet port from the flight compartment. This prevents fumes etc. from entering the mask. Selecting the emergency lever to the “on” position mechanically loads the demand diaphragm to provide positive pressure. Emergency Regulating Oxygen System (EROS) Crew Oxygen Masks These are combined masks and regulators fitted at each crew station to provide the flight crew with diluted or 100% oxygen. They are stowed in a panel mounted box in such a way that the regulator controls and the feed hose protrude through apertures in the stowage doors. When the mask/regulator is stowed and the box doors closed, oxygen flow to the mask is prevented by a shut-off valve inside the box, this valve being held closed by the Reset-Test Lever on the left door. The flow indicator is visible with the doors open or closed. The pneumatic harness that holds the mask to the face is deflated when stowed . The harness fits all head sizes. It is a requirement (JAR-OPS 1 subpart K) that these quick donning masks must be provided for the flight deck crew on all aircraft that have a maximum operating altitude above 25 000 ft. ID: 5790 Aircraft Oxygen Equipment 13 266 13Aircraft Oxygen Equipment Control The control for normal or 100% oxygen flow is on the front of the regulator, marked N and 100% PUSH. 100% oxygen is obtained by pushing in on the end of the control marked 100% push. The EMERGENCY control knob changes the flow from diluter demand to steady flow if it is rotated to the emergency setting. Operation The mask is withdrawn by grasping the red release grips between thumb and forefinger. This action initiates inflation of the harness, the inflated condition assisting its rapid donning. Subsequent release of the grips bleeds pressure from the harness, which will now form fit the head. The masks include R/T communication facilities and can be modified to include a mask ventilation feature which, when selected, will provide ventilation to the smoke goggles in order to overcome misting problems. Testing The emergency knob is also marked PRESS TO TEST. When pressed together with the RESET- TEST lever, it allows oxygen to flow into the mask. Flow is checked on the flow indicator. Figure 13.5 EROS oxygen mask PRESS TO TEST EMERGENCY Figure 2.5 EROS Oxygen Mask Order: 5422 13 267 Aircraft Oxygen Equipment 13 Aircraft Oxygen Equipment Passenger Oxygen System This system provides an emergency oxygen supply to the passengers and cabin attendants and is of the continuous flow type supplied either by a high pressure gaseous system or a chemical generator system. The masks are stowed in the passenger service units (PSU), the doors of which will open automatically by a barometrically controlled release mechanism if the cabin altitude reaches 14 000 ft o r by manual selection from the flight deck by the crew at any altitude below this. The release mechanism is actuated electrically for the chemical generator system and pneumatically for the gaseous system. When the PSU doors open the masks drop to the “half-hung” position. Pulling the mask towards the face initiates the oxygen flow by opening a check valve on the gas supplied system or operating the electrical or percussion cap firing mechanism on the chemical generator. The masks are now ready for use. Chemical Oxygen Generators Figure 13.6 The generators are relatively light self-contained devices and are located in each passenger, cabin attendants and lavatory service units. Oxygen is generated by the chemical reaction of sodium chlorate (NaClO 3) and iron (Fe). The complete reaction is NaClO3 + Fe = (NaCl + FeO) + O 2. The sodium chlorate and iron core is shaped to provide maximum oxygen flow at starting. A filter in the generator removes any contaminates and cools the oxygen to a temperature not exceeding 10°C above cabin ambient temperature. A relief valve prevents the internal pressure in the generator exceeding 50 psi the normal flow pressure is 10 psi. Sufficient oxygen is supplied from the generator to meet the requirements of descent in emergency conditions (min of 15 mins). There has now been developed a chemical generator which lasts for a period of 22 minutes. ID: 5790 Aircraft Oxygen Equipment 13 268 13Aircraft Oxygen Equipment Caution. Once the chemical reaction has started, it cannot be stopped. Surface temperatures of the generator can reach 232°C (450°F). A strip of heat sensitive tape or paint changes colour, usually to black, when the generator is used and provides visual indication that the generator is expended. Chemical generators have a shelf/installed life of ten years. Figure 13.7 Oxygen flow profile for a chemical oxygen generatorFigure 2.7. Oxygen Flow Profile for a Chemical Oxygen Generator 2 2 5 22 Portable Oxygen Systems First aid and sustaining portable oxygen cylinders are installed at suitable locations in the passenger cabin. They consist of a cylinder containing normally 120 litres of oxygen at a pressure of 1800 psi in a carrying bag with straps. It is usually possible to set one of two flow rates depending on requirement. These are Normal and High which correspond to flow rates of 2 and 4 litres per minute. At these rates a 120 litre bottle would last 60 or 30 minutes respectively. 310 litre bottles with four way manifolds for multiple supplies are available with high or medium rates as above. Crew Portable Oxygen Systems and Smoke Hoods Standard portable oxygen bottles can be used by the crew to enable them to move about the cabin during reduced cabin pressure situations but for use when harsh environmental conditions exist portable sets with a full face smoke mask will be used. They may be standard cylinders or may be special smoke sets with built-in generators which can produce oxygen for 15 minutes once initiated. Special training is required prior to use and they are not suitable for passengers. Order: 5422 13 269 Aircraft Oxygen Equipment 13 Aircraft Oxygen Equipment Figure 13.8 Smoke hoods (Drager) Figure 13.9 Crew portable oxygen ID: 5790 Aircraft Oxygen Equipment 13 270 13Aircraft Oxygen Equipment Safety Precautions The following general safety precautions apply to all oxygen systems. Specific precautions for individual aircraft types are contained in the appropriate aircraft manual and flight crew should familiarize themselves with the safety precautions for the type. • Oxygen is a non-flammable heavier than air gas which supports combustion as well as life. Any flammable material will burn more fiercely in the presence of oxygen than in air. Smoking is therefore banned in oxygen rich atmospheres and all combustible materials should be removed from the area of