=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

and Development (DERD). The specification number for gasoline is DERD 2485. The octane rating of the fuel is specified with the grade e.g. AVGAS 100 is a 100 octane fuel. Higher octane fuels are used with high performance engines having high compression ratios. The most popular grades of AVGAS readily available today are: Grade P erformance No. C olour S pecific Gravity (Density) AVGAS 100LL 100/130 Blue 0.72 L ow Lead AVGAS 100 100/130 G reen 0.72 High L ead AVGAS 115 115/145 G reen 0.72 High L ead Note: although AVGAS 100 and AVGAS 100LL have the same 100/130 performance No. they are however easily distinguished by their colour. AVGAS 100 is green, while AVGAS 100LL is blue. MOGAS MOGAS (motor gasoline) can sometimes be used in certain airframe engine combinations, but only under the conditions specified in CAP 747 GC2 because of its low octane rating. Because of its higher volatility carburettor icing and vapour locking is much more likely. Information on the use of MOGAS can also be found in CAA Safety Sense leaflet no. 4a. ID: 5790 Aircraft Fuel Systems 16 312 16Aircraft Fuel Systems Gas Turbine Fuels Gas turbine engined aircraft use kerosene fuels. The two main types of gas turbine fuel in common use in civilian aircraft are shown below, together with their characteristic properties: AVTUR (Aviation turbine fuel) • JET A1. This is a kerosene type fuel with a nominal SG of 0.8 at 15°C. It has a flash point of 38°C and a waxing point of -47°C. • JET A is a similar type of fuel with the same SG and flash point but has a waxing point of -40°C. This fuel is normally only available in the USA. Flash point of 38°C. AVTAG (Aviation turbine gasoline) • JET B. This is a wide-cut gasoline/kerosene mix type fuel with a nominal SG of 0.77 at 15°C, it has a flash point as low as -20°C, a wider boiling range than JET A1, and a waxing point of -60°C. JET B can be used as an alternative to JET A1 but it has a wider range of flammability and is not generally used in civilian aircraft. Fuel Colour Turbine fuels are not dyed for identification, they retain their natural colour which can range between a straw yellow to completely colourless. Cloudy Fuel If a fuel sample appears cloudy or hazy then there could be a number of reasons. If the cloudiness appears to rise quite rapidly towards the top of the sample then air is present, if the cloud falls quite slowly towards the bottom of the sample then water is present in the fuel. A cloudy appearance usually indicates the presence of water. Jet Fuel Additives A number of additives may be blended into the fuel either at the refinery or at the airfield to improve the operating ability of the fuel. The most popular are listed below. • FSII (Fuel System Icing Inhibitor). A certain amount of water is present in all fuel. FSII contains an icing inhibitor and fungal suppressant to combat the following problems: • Icing. As an aircraft climbs to altitude the fuel is cooled and the amount of dissolved water it can hold is reduced. Water droplets form and as the temperature is further reduced they turn to ice crystals which can block fuel system components. • Fungal Growth and Corrosion. A microbiological fungus called Cladasporium Resinae is present in all turbine fuels. This fungus grows rapidly in the presence of water to form long green filaments which can block fuel system components. The waste products of the fungus are corrosive, especially to fuel tank sealing substances. The inclusion of FSII in the fuel will help to overcome these problems. Order: 5422 16 313 Aircraft Fuel Systems 16 Aircraft Fuel Systems • HITEC (Lubricity Agent). A lubricity agent is added to the fuel to reduce wear in the fuel system components (pumps, fuel control unit etc.). • Static dissipater additives partially eliminate the hazards of static electricity generated by the movement of fuel through modern high flow rate fuel transfer systems, particularly during refuelling and defuelling. • Corrosion inhibitors protect ferrous metals in fuel handling systems, such as pipelines and storage tanks, from corrosion. Certain of these corrosion inhibitors appear to improve the lubricating qualities (lubricity) of some gas turbine fuels. • Metal de-activators suppress the catalytic effect which some metals, particularly copper, have on fuel oxidation. Water in the Fuel Water is always present in fuel, the amount will vary according to the efficiency of the manufacturer’s quality control and the preventive measures taken during storage and transfer. Further measures can be taken to minimize water accretion once the fuel has been transferred to the aircraft tanks: • Water Drains. If the fuel can be allowed to settle after replenishment then the water droplets, being heavier than the fuel, will fall to the bottom of the tank and can then be drained off through the water drain valve. • Fuel Heater. A fuel heater is provided in turbine engine aircraft fuel systems to prevent water in the fuel freezing and blocking fuel filters. In gas turbine engine systems the fuel is passed through a heat exchanger utilizing hot compressor delivery air, to remove any ice crystals which may have formed while the fuel was exposed to the very low temperatures experienced at high altitudes. Some systems also utilize a fuel cooled oil cooler, this uses the hot engine oil to warm the fuel and in doing so it also cools the oil. • Atmosphere Exclusion. Once the fuel is in the aircraft fuel tanks, the main source of water contamination is the atmosphere that remains within the tank. If the tanks are topped up to full then the atmosphere is excluded together with the moisture it contains, thus minimizing the likelihood that the fuel will be contaminated. Caution is required here, filling up the tanks may prove an embarrassment the next day if the ambient temperature rises as the volume of the fuel in the tank will increase and there is the danger that it may spill out of the vent system. Filling the fuel tanks may also incur a performance penalty as the aircraft may be too heavy to take off with the required traffic load and some defuelling may be required. Waxing Waxing is the depositing of heavy hydrocarbons from the fuel at low temperatures. The deposits take the form of paraffin wax crystals which can clog the fuel filter and interfere with the operation of the fuel control unit. The effects of waxing can be minimized by: • the refinery keeping the levels of heavy hydrocarbons low • the inclusion of a fuel heater in the engine fuel system ID: 5790 Aircraft Fuel Systems 16 314 16Aircraft Fuel Systems Boiling The temperature at which a fuel boils will vary with the pressure on its surface. As an aircraft climbs, the pressure on the surface of the fuel reduces and with that reduction comes an increased likelihood that the fuel will boil and form vapour in the pipelines. The vapour locks that this effect cause will effectively cut off the fuel supply to the engine with the inevitable result that the engine will stop. Fuel booster pumps fitted inside the tanks can overcome this problem by pressurizing the fuel in the pipelines from the tank to the engine, pushing fuel towards the engine rather than engine driven pumps sucking fuel from the tanks. The Effects of SG The specific gravity of a liquid varies inversely with its temperature. On modern aircraft this usually makes little difference unless full tanks are required, because only the mass of the fuel load is taken into account. The fuel quantity measuring system compensates for changes in fuel specific gravity, however, the maximum governor fitted to some gas turbine engines is sensitive to changes in specific gravity and so would require some adjustment if a different specific gravity fuel was uplifted. Fuel Systems The Aircraft Storage System The fuel is carried in (or on) the aircraft within tanks which can be integral, rigid or flexible. • Integral tanks - where the inside of the wings and, depending on type, the centre section torsion box and horizontal stabilizer, are sealed during manufacture to provide large volume fuel storage. The advantage of this type of tank is that there is little extra weight added to the aircraft as the tank structure is formed by the structure already required; all modern large passenger aircraft will have this type of tank. • Rigid tanks - a sealed metal container mounted in the aircraft wing or fuselage. Simple but does add extra weight and requires mounting structure. Most popular on light aircraft. This type of tank may be fitted externally, on the wing tip for example, made of metal or a composite construction. • Flexible tanks - bags made of sealed rubberized fabric, sometimes referred to as fuel bladders or bag tanks. This type