=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

the tube be breached and the gas released from the core, the same pressure switch that sensed the pressure rise due to increased temperature will sense the drop in pressure and signal a Loop Fault on the control panel or electronic systems display. Note: Any f ault within a fire detection system which may give rise to a false fire warning must be treated as a real fire. Order: 5422 15 295 Fire Detection and Protection 15 Fire Detection and Protection Figure 15.5 Fire detection loops Fire Test Before flight a means must be available to test the fire circuit. A fire test selector is therefore provided on the flight deck. On selection the indications identical to a real fire warning will be displayed on all engines. This has tested circuit continuity. Should a break occur in a Fire Warning System no fire test will be given for that particular engine. Likewise a leakage in the gas filled system will negate a warning. It may be designed that a warning is given to notify crews that a single fire loop has failed, the system now operating on a single loop. Depending on aircraft type limited leg operations may be permitted in the single loop mode. ID: 5790 Fire Detection and Protection 15 296 15Fire Detection and Protection Figure 15.6 Typical fire warning indicators Figure 15.7 Cockpit overhead engine fire panel Figure 15.8 Pedestal engine and fire control panel Images courtesy of Airbus Industrie Order: 5422 15 297 Fire Detection and Protection 15 Fire Detection and Protection Fire Warning Indications/Drills Flight deck indications of a fire warning must be attention getting rather than startling. To that end the format for such a warning may take the form of: • a klaxon or bell or continuous repetitive chime sounding • a master warning caption (No. 1 engine fire) • a steady red fire warning light in the appropriate engine display channel On receipt of a fire warning the drill must be carried out in strict order. The following drill being representative: • a means of cancelling the aural warning • a sequence to shut off fuel, bleed air, electrics and hydraulics to the engine • a means of discharging the fire bottles into the engine fire zones. Note: T he above drill is a generalization and the appropriate aircraft emergency checklist must be consulted. Figure 15.9 Engine fire protection ID: 5790 Fire Detection and Protection 15 298 15Fire Detection and Protection Fire Protection Having adhered to the correct drill for shutting down an engine and isolating all services to it, fire protection i.e. a fire extinguishant, can now be sprayed into the fire zones. This system normally comprises fire bottles, usually two per engine, connected via piping to the fire zones. At the zones the piping forms a spray ring from which the extinguishant is directed around the area. A means of discharging the fire bottle is provided on the flight deck and its operation may follow the following sequence: • engine shutdown drill completed • an electrical cartridge, situated between the base of the fire bottle and the piping, is armed (SQUIB illuminates an engine fire panel). • pressing the AGENT selector fires the cartridge allowing fire extinguishant, under pressure, to enter the spray rings in the engine • pressurized extinguishant operates a low pressure electrical switch which illuminates the DISCH caption on the AGENT selector. In the event that a single fire bottle does not extinguish the fire a second is fitted, activation and indication being the same as previously described. Note: CS-25 1195 (c) states that two discharges must be provided for each engine. Older aircraft may have varying flight deck indications of a bottle having been fired. For example an indicator fuse (a clear small bulb which turns red on bottle firing). Physical indications that a bottle has been fired may include: • an indicator pin on the bottle head • a bottle pressure gauge Note: th ese may not be visible externally and panel access may be required . In the event that a fire bottle has been subject to excess temperature/pressure a thermal discharge may take place. Indications that the bottle contents have discharged overboard can be: • bottle pressure gauge reading zero • an external green disc being ejected under which a red disc will show Order: 5422 15 299 Fire Detection and Protection 15 Fire Detection and Protection Figure 15.10 Typical fire protection system layout Figure 4.10 Typical Fire Protection System Layout Reference Figure 15.10. On receipt of left engine fire warning: 1. CL OSE LEFT THRUST LEVER 2. LEF T ENGINE HP OR ENGINE START LEVER CLOSE 3. P ULL No. 1 FIRE HANDLE 4. NUMB ER 1 ENGINE FIRE HANDLE ROTATE LEFT TO MECHANICAL LIMIT AND HOLD FOR AT LEAST 1 SECOND. THIS WILL DISCHARGE THE LEFT BOTTLE INTO THE LEFT ENGINE 5. I F AFTER 30 SECONDS FIRE WARNING REMAINS ILLUMINATED ROTATE No. 1 FIRE HANDLE RIGHT TO ITS MECHANICAL LIMIT AND HOLD FOR AT LEAST 1 SECOND. THIS WILL DISCHARGE THE RIGHT BOTTLE INTO THE LEFT ENGINE. 6. LAND A S SOON AS POSSIBLE This is an example and individual aircraft checklists must be consulted for the correct procedure to be followed. ID: 5790 Fire Detection and Protection 15 300 15Fire Detection and Protection Auxiliary Power Unit Protection APUs are constant speed self-contained gas turbines, which derive their fuel supply from the aircraft system. Their services may include, bleed air, hydraulic power, electrical power or a combination of these. They can when certified be available for airborne use. APUs are self-monitoring and will auto shut down in the event of: • fire • oil pressure failure • overspeed • overheat Note: Alth ough APUs auto shut down a manual control panel is normally included. Automatic discharge of the APU fire extinguisher may be performed on some aircraft in some circumstances. Figure 15.11 External APU fire control panel (Airbus) Courtesy of Airbus Industrie Order: 5422 15 301 Fire Detection and Protection 15 Fire Detection and Protection Figure 15.12 Automatic toilet fire extinguishers Courtesy of Airbus Industrie Toilet Fire System These are fitted around each disposal receptacle for towels, paper or waste paper containers and consist of a fire bottle, fusible plug and spray ring and are a requirement for all aircraft with a passenger capacity of 20 or more. In the event of a fire the fusible plug will melt discharging fire extinguishant into the spray ring. The toilets must also be fitted with a smoke detector system. (See Chapter 14). ID: 5790 Fire Detection and Protection 15 302 15Fire Detection and Protection Figure 15.13 Extinguishers Figure 4.12. Fire extinguishers Fire Extinguishants Fire extinguishants must be suitable for various on-board aircraft fires. The list below gives types and uses: Bromochlorodifluromethane (BCF) This is stored in signal red, purple, brown or green containers. This agent is very effective against electrical and flammable liquid fires. It is only slightly toxic, is colourless, non-corrosive and evaporates rapidly leaving no residue. It does not freeze or cause cold burns and will not harm fabrics, metals or other materials it contacts. It is also known as Halon 1211. It acts rapidly on fires by producing a heavy blanketing mist which eliminates air from the fire source but more importantly it interferes chemically with the combustion process. It has outstanding properties in preventing re-flash after the fire has been extinguished. Along with Halon 1301 it is widely used in HRD (High Rate Discharge) fire extinguishing systems fitted to some gas turbine power plants. Order: 5422 15 303 Fire Detection and Protection 15 Fire Detection and Protection Bromotrifluromethane (BTM) Stored in grey containers and used in fixed systems it is known as Halon 1301 and has a very low toxicity. It is used for the protection of APUs, power plants and cargo compartments. It has similar characteristics to Halon 1211 except that it has a vapour spray and is more difficult to direct. NOTE: BCF & B TM are part of a group of Halogenated Hydrocarbons commonly called FREON. Others in the group have long names and are also Halon 1011, 104 & 1201. Halon 104 is no longer used as it is toxic and the other two are not recommended for use in aircraft. Water or Water Glycol This is stored in red containers and used for hand held portable appliances. It can be used in passenger cabins for combatting fires involving domestic materials. It must not be used on fires which involve electrical equipment or liquids , the glycol is an antifreeze agent which permit operation of the extinguishers at temperatures as low as -20°C. Dry Chemical (Dry Powder) This is stored in a blue or red container with a blue label and occasionally called ‘Dry Powder’. The use of this agent in crew compartments or passenger cabins of pressurized aircraft is not permitted (JAR-25). However some light aircraft may have these and their use should be avoided if at all possible as visibility would be