=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

hydraulic actuator. The A320 is a typical example of an aircraft with a FBW system in which all surfaces are actuated hydraulically and are electrically or mechanically controlled. The main controls architecture is as follows. Pitch Control Elevator control e lectrical. Stabilizer control electrical for normal or alternate control. Mechanical for manual trim control. Roll Control Ailerons e lectrical. Spoilers e lectrical. Yaw Control Rudder mec hanical with electrical for yaw damping, turn co-ordination and trim. Slats and Flaps electrical. Speed Brakes e lectrical. The flight deck controls consist of two side sticks, conventional rudder pedals and pedestal mounted controls and indicators. Electrical control is by three types of computer: • ELAC (Elevator Aileron Computer) There are two of these computers which control the ailerons, elevators and stabilizer. • SEC (Spoilers Elevator Computer) There are three of these computers which control the upper wing surfaces and the standby elevator and stabilizer. • FAC (Flight Augmentation Computer) There are two computers for electrical rudder control. Order: 5422 9 193 Powered Flying Controls 9 Powered Flying Controls Figure 9.11 Fly by wire block diagram Z Z Advantages and Disadvantages of FBW in Comparison to a Conventional Flight Control System Weight FBW systems can be lighter than a conventional system as FBW does not require the heavy control cables. On a transport aircraft using FBW the natural stability can be relaxed, which means the stabilizing surfaces can be made smaller. These both provide a significant reduction in fuel consumption The main problem with FBW is that of reliability. Conventional systems tend to fail slowly. The loss of a flight computer would result in a loss of control immediately. This means some form of redundancy is required and this can be achieved by either additional computers, mechanical or hydraulic back-up. Pilot Workload Pilot workload can be reduced by computers making many of the inputs and through support including automatic control features such as turn co-ordination and auto trim Flight Envelope Protection The system will prevent the pilot pitching the aircraft beyond the stalling angle of attack. It will also allow the pilot to operate the controls positively up to the 2.5g limit without fear of overstressing the aircraft ID: 5790 Powered Flying Controls 9 194 9Powered Flying Controls Figure 9.12 Flight protection Redundancy Safeguards to eliminate the possibility of loss of control in the event of hydraulic or electrical failure must be provided on modern transport aircraft. This is generally achieved by building some form of redundancy into the control system. Splitting the control surfaces into two or three sections, each powered by separate actuators and hydraulic systems is the usual method. Computer system redundancy is also provided in the case of Airbus aircraft as shown in Figure 9.13. Order: 5422 9 195 Powered Flying Controls 9 Powered Flying Controls Figure 9.13 Flight control redundancy Protection against Jamming of Controls In addition to redundancy aircraft are required to have protection against controls jamming. It is possible for control systems or individual actuators to jam. On some aircraft the pilots have disconnect levers, these are usually brightly painted on the centre pedestal and operate pitch and roll disconnects. Pulling or turning one handle disconnects the elevator with each pilot in control of his side. The other handle is the roll disconnect and this usually gives the captain control of the roll spoilers and the co-pilot control of the ailerons. It should be noted that there are many different disconnect systems and that there may be a reduction in roll rate. Other aircraft types have cross linked control systems that employ a number of override or breakout connectors to protect against single point jams. There are also other aircraft that have a series of shear rivets. In these systems the yokes are usually tied with shear rivets in the aileron, elevator and rudder systems. Should the ailerons become jammed, the yokes are turned towards each other to shear the rivet. This would allow the remaining aileron to be used. Similar procedures are used for the elevators and rudder. Rudder centring may be lost when this type of protection is used. ID: 5790 Questions 9 196 9Questions Questions 1. T he purpose of pulley wheels in cable control systems is: a. t o ensure the cable tensions are equal throughout the system b. t o change the direction of the control cable c. t o ensure smooth operation of the system d. t o prevent the cable from slackening 2. T he purpose of the primary stops in a control system is: a. t o set the range of movement of the control surface b. t o enable the secondary stops to be correctly spaced c. t o limit control movement to one direction only d. t o set the control surface neutral position 3. T he purpose of the secondary stops in a control system is: a. t o reduce the control loads on the primary stops b. t o limit control surface range in the event of primary stop failure c. t o limit the secondary control system from excessive movement d. t o remove the excess backlash in the controls 4. T he purpose of the fairleads in a cable control system is to: a. alt er the angle of deflection of the cables b. t o guide the cables on to the pulley wheels c. t o attach the cables to chain drives d. t o keep the cable straight and clear of structure 5. In a ca ble control system cables are tensioned to: 1 . r emove backlash from the control linkage 2. p rovide tension on the turnbuckles 3. p rovide positive action in both directions 4. ensur e the full range is achieved 5. compens ate for temperature variations a. 1 , 3 and 5 only b. 3 o nly c. 4 o nly d. all the a bove 6. In a ca ble control system the cables are mounted in pairs to: 1 . r emove backlash from the control linkage 2. p rovide tension on the turnbuckles 3. p rovide positive action in both directions 4. ensur e the full range is achieved 5. compens ate for temperature variations a. 1 , 3 and 5 only b. 3 o nly c. 4 o nly d. all the a bove Order: 5422 9 197 Questions 9 Questions 7. In a man ual flying control system the control inputs to the primary control surfaces: 1 . ar e reversible 2. ar e irreversible 3. ar e instinctive for the movement required 4. ar e opposite for the movement required 5. ar e limited in range by flight deck obstructions a. 1 an d 4 only b. 2 an d 4 only c. 1 an d 3 only d. 1 , 3 and 5 only 8. T o yaw the aircraft to the right: a. the r ight rudder pedal is pushed forward and the rudder moves to the left b. the r ight rudder pedal is pushed forward and the rudder moves to the right c. the le ft rudder pedal is pushed forward and the rudder moves to the left d. the le ft rudder pedal is pushed forward and the rudder moves to the left 9. T o roll the aircraft to the right: a. the rudde r control is moved to the right, the right aileron moves up and the left down b. the aile ron control is moved to the left and the right aileron moves up and the left down c. the aile ron control is moved to the right and the right elevator goes up and the left one down d. the aile ron control is moved to the right, the right aileron goes up and the left one down 10. T he advantages of a cable control are: 1 . li ght, very good strength to weight ratio 2. ea sy to route through the aircraft 3. l ess prone to impact damage 4. t akes up less volume 5. l ess bolted joints a. 1 , 2 and 4 only b. 3 an d 5 only c. 1 , 2 and 5 only d. all the a bove ID: 5790 Answers 9 198 9Answers Answers 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 b a b d a b c b d d Order: 5422 199 10 Chapter Aircraft Pneumatic Systems Aircraft Pneumatic Systems. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201 Air Conditioning Systems . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201 Systems Used for Non-pressurized Flight . . . . . . . . .