=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

a tensile stress, compression loads will set up compressive stresses. Stress is defined as the force per unit of area and is measured in units of N/mm2 or MN/m2. Strain When an external force of sufficient magnitude acts on a structure, the structural dimensions change. This is known as strain. Strain is defined as the deformation caused by the action of stress on a material. It is normally given as the change in dimension expressed as a percentage of the original dimensions of the object. The relationship between stress and strain for an elastic material is generally a constant known as Young’s Modulus of Elasticity. Buckling Buckling occurs to thin sheet materials when they are subjected to end loads and to ties if subjected to compressive forces. Aircraft components are subjected to some or all of the above stresses and these will tend to elongate, compress, bend, shear or twist the component. However, providing the resulting deformation is within the elastic limit of the material, the component will return to its original dimension once the deforming load has been removed. If any load takes the structure beyond the elastic limit the deformation will be permanent, this is referred to as plastic deformation. Dynamic and Static Loads Dynamic loads are those that tend to build up quickly due to changes in flight conditions. These loads are produced when an aircraft is manoeuvred and may induce additional loads on other parts of the aircraft. They can often be quite severe. Static loads are generally constant and build slowly. An aircraft on the ground will experience static loads. The weight of the aircraft will produce an opposing force coming up from the landing gear which will have to be carried by the wing structure. Order: 5422 1 5 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces 1 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces Forces Acting on the Aircraft Structure An aircraft is subject to various forces which act on the structure both on the ground and in flight. During flight the wings produce lift which tends to bend the wing upwards, as a result there will be compression on the upper surface and tension on the lower. Lift also causes a torsional force which twists the wing. Drag will also act on components such as the landing gear, bending them backwards whilst the mass of the aircraft will pull it downwards. An aircraft flying straight and level at a constant speed will be subject to 1g. Any change in attitude will change the g which in turn alters the weight of the structure and the loads. It should be noted that the loads on an aircraft that experiences engine failure will change considerably. The remaining engine on a twin would still be producing thrust on one side of the aircraft. In addition to changes in the loads on the wings, the asymmetric thrust would produce a yawing moment which in turn would need to be corrected by the use of opposite rudder. There would be increased loading on the fin and the fuselage structure. Design Limit Load (DLL) This is the maximum load that the designer would expect the airframe or component to experience in service. The standard DLLs are: For Transport Aircraft +2.5 and -1.0. For Utility Aircraft 4.4, and for Aerobatic Aircraft, 6. These values are based on ‘g’-forces and derived from failure values determined experimentally at the design stage. Design Ultimate Load (DUL) The DUL is the DLL × the safety factor. The minimum safety factor specified in design requirements is 1.5. The structure must withstand DUL without collapse. Safety Factor The safety factor is the ratio of the ultimate load to the limit load. SF = DUL DLL Design Philosophies The aircraft manufacturer will attempt to design an aircraft to take into account all the loads that it may experience in flight. There are various guidelines, formulae and experience to guide them in the design of a good fail-safe/damage tolerant structure. Safe Life The safe life of an aircraft structure is defined as the minimum life during which it is known that no catastrophic damage should occur. Life-counts for components of assemblies may be recorded as a number of flying hours, cycles of landing, pressurization events, accelerations or even on a calendar basis. After the elapsed life-count or fatigue cycle (typically pressurisations or landings) has been reached, the item is replaced or overhauled. In the interim (operational life) of the aircraft, and to minimize the chances of failure due to fatigue, aircraft designers apply the principle of Fail-safe construction or Damage tolerance. ID: 5790 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces 1 6 1Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces Fail-safe or Damage Tolerant Structure Large modern aircraft are designed with a Fail-safe or Damage tolerant structure. This can be described as a structure in which a failure of a particular part is compensated for by an alternative load-path provided by an adjacent part that is able to carry the loads for a limited time period. Typically this is a structure which, after any single failure or crack in any one structural member can safely carry the normal operating loads until the next periodic inspection . True dualling of load-paths in common practice could be found in wing attachments and also in vertical stabilizer and horizontal stabilizer attachment points. Figure 1.4 Detection of faults is reliant upon a planned inspection programme capable of finding such failures. In order to gain access to the vulnerable areas a certain amount of dismantling is necessary although the use of non-destructive testing (NDT) may be employed in less critical areas. The disadvantage of true dualling of load-paths is that it is fundamentally very heavy. Modern concepts of construction employ the ‘ Stressed skin’ or ‘ Semi-monocoque’ style of construction where each piece of the aircraft has its part to play in spreading loads throughout the airframe and is tolerant to certain amount of damage. The programmed inspection cycle periodicity is determined on the basis that if a crack of detectable length has been missed at the first inspection, the structure will allow this crack to develop until a subsequent inspection before it becomes critical. The criteria of inspection cycles, Design Limit Loads, and Design Ultimate Loads are agreed at the time of certification. Damage Tolerant Structure Fail-safe structures are rather heavy due to the extra structural members required to protect the integrity of the structure. Damage tolerant structure eliminates the extra structural members by spreading the loading of a particular structure over a larger area. This means that the structure is designed so that damage can be detected during the normal inspection cycles before a failure occurs. Order: 5422 1 7 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces 1 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces Figure 1.5 Damage tolerant structure Fatigue A structure may be subject to cyclic loads. This is where a structure experiences continual reversals of loading and will fail at a load of less than would be the case for a steadily applied load. This is known as Fatigue. The failing load will depend on the number of reversals experienced. It can be seen in the example below that if the applied stress was 80% of the ultimate stress, the specimen could expect to fail after 100 applications but if the applied stress was reduced to 20% the failure would not occur until 10 million applications. Figure 1.6 Fatigue ID: 5790 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces 1 8 1Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces Stress Concentration Factor A stress concentration is the point on an object where stress is concentrated. An object is strongest when the force is evenly distributed over its area. If the area is reduced there will be a localized increase in stress. This may be produced by a crack. Materials can fail via a propagating crack Most materials contain small cracks or contaminants that concentrate stress. Fatigue cracks will start at these points so removing any defects will increase the fatigue strength Station Numbers A method of locating components on the aircraft must be established in order that maintenance and repairs can be carried out. This is achieved by identifying reference lines and station numbers for fuselage, wings, empennage, etc. Fuselage station lines are determined by reference to a zero datum line (fuselage station 0.00) at or near the forward portion of the aircraft as defined by the manufacturer. Station numbers are given in inches forward (negative and given a - sign) or aft (positive and with a + sign) of the zero datum. Wing stations are measured from the centre line of the aircraft and are also given in inches left or right of the centre line. Vertical position from a ground line or horizontal datum can be known as a Water Line (WL), given as a dimension in inches from the horizontal datum. Order: 5422 1 9 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces 1 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces Figure 1.7 Various stations on a corporate jet aircraft ID: 5790 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces 1 10