=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

by separate hydraulic systems. Should either system fail or be taken off line by the pilot, then the drop in hydraulic pressure will allow the spring loaded piston to open the bypass channel and so prevent a hydraulic lock from forming in the actuator. This then will permit the PFCU to follow the control movement of the backup unit. Figure 3.2. A Powered Assisted Flying Control unit. CONTROL COLUMN Figure 9.3 A power assisted flying control unit Order: 5422 9 187 Powered Flying Controls 9 Powered Flying Controls Artificial Feel Units When hydraulic actuators are used to operate the controls, hydraulic pressure moves the control surfaces thus removing from the pilot’s control any control feel. Under these conditions the pilot would have no idea of the required amount of control surface movement to make and hence would be in danger of over controlling the aircraft. To prevent this from happening, artificial feel units are fitted to these systems which are designed to give the pilot control feel which is proportional to the speed of the aircraft and to the amount of control surface movement made. These units vary from a simple spring box as shown in Figure 9.4, to a ‘Q’ pot operating system. A fully powered flying control unit is irreversible, and requires an artificial feel system. A power assisted flying control unit is reversible, allowing feedback to the cockpit controls, and does not require an artificial feel system. Figure 9.4 Movement of the control column in either direction will compress one or other of the springs. A simple ‘Q’ pot unit is shown in Figure 9.5. This unit contains a simple piston which is connected through a double linkage to the control column so that whichever way the control column moves, the piston will be pulled forward against pitot pressure which is admitted to the forward side of the pot. The rear side of the pot is open to static to enable the pressure on the front side of the piston to measure dynamic pressure which ensures that control feed is proportional to aircraft speed. Pitot pressure - Static pressure = Dynamic pressure P + ½ρ V2 - P = ½ρ V2 ID: 5790 Powered Flying Controls 9 188 9Powered Flying Controls Figure 9.5 To be effective, these ‘Q’ pots would have to be very large and so nowadays these units are used in conjunction with a hydraulic spool valve selector which supplies hydraulic fluid to the piston. Figure 9.6 shows a simple ‘Q’ pot operated feel unit. Figure 9.6 Order: 5422 9 189 Powered Flying Controls 9 Powered Flying Controls Operation With the forward movement of the aircraft, pitot pressure is fed to the upper chamber of the ‘Q’ pot section of the unit, pushing down the diaphragm. The faster the aircraft flies, the greater will be the pressure on top of the diaphragm. The diaphragm is connected to a spool type selector valve so that the downward movement of the diaphragm opens the pressure port and partially closes off the return port. Hydraulic fluid admitted to the unit will then pass to the forward side of the piston and through a narrow channel to the underside of the spool valve to dampen its downward movement. The faster the aircraft flies therefore, the higher will be the pitot pressure pushing down on the diaphragm and the greater will be the opening of the pressure port in the selector which means that the pressure in front of the piston will increase thereby increasing the resistance to further control movement. The return port is never fully closed as this would otherwise cause a hydraulic lock to form in the system. Large control movement will have a similar effect on control feel as high speed flight does. Figure 9.7 shows the two principal units in any fully powered flying control system. NOTE: The artificial feel unit is connected in parallel to the pilot’s control column. Figure 9.7 ID: 5790 Powered Flying Controls 9 190 9Powered Flying Controls Artificial Feel System The artificial feel system shown in Figure 9.8 uses both spring and hydraulic feel. Spring feel units may be adequate at low speeds, but at higher speeds, greater resistance to cockpit control movement is needed to prevent overstressing the aircraft structure. The double cam on the aft elevator control quadrant illustrates the tendency of the artificial feel system to put the control column into the neutral position. If the pilot moves the control column he must compress the spring and overcome the force exerted on the hydraulic piston. The feel computer provides the hydraulic feel. Pitot pressure is delivered to the top side of the airspeed diaphragm and static pressure is fed to the other side of the diaphragm. The diaphragm exerts a downward force on two sets of springs, one on top of the stabilizer position cam, the other above the metering valve and this force is proportional to the aircraft speed. Figure 9.8 Metered pressure forces exerted against the internal horizontal surfaces of the metering valve balance each other and tend to hold it in the neutral position. If the metered pressure exerted against the relief valve at the top of the metering valve is enough to balance the downward force exerted on it by the diaphragm and the spring, then the pressure inlet port remains closed. When the airspeed increases, the downward force on the metering valve increases and overcomes the metered pressure force and moves the metering valve down, opening its interior to the hydraulic pressure line until the metered pressure balances the downward force on the metering valve. The metering valve continually modulates to compensate for metered pressure bleed to return. If the pilot moves the control column, he has to force the hydraulic feel piston up into the cylinder and in so doing overcome the hydraulic force acting on the piston. The force exerted by the pilot is transferred to the relief valve which opens slightly against pitot pressure acting downwards on it and allows hydraulic fluid to bleed to return. Order: 5422 9 191 Powered Flying Controls 9 Powered Flying Controls The feel computer also incorporates a load relieving trim system connecting the horizontal stabilizer to the relief valve via the stabilizer position cam and the bellows. Operation of the elevators places a stick force on the pilot’s controls which needs to be removed once control movement has been completed. To remove this stick force, the pilot trims the variable incidence stabilizer until the stick force is cancelled and the elevator returns to the neutral position. Feel Trim System Figure 9.9 shows a basic sketch of a hydraulically operated artificial feel unit with feel trim included. Normal operation of the controls creates a stick force which requires trimming out. This is achieved by operation of the trim wheel which will relieve the downward pressure on the metering valve by allowing the bellows to expand downwards at the same time as it trims the tailplane or elevator to fly ‘Hands Off’. Figure 9.9 Figure 9.10 shows a simplified schematic sketch of a powered flying controls system to be found on a modern civil aircraft. Figure 9.10 ID: 5790 Powered Flying Controls 9 192 9Powered Flying Controls Fly by Wire (FBW) Systems A fly by wire system is a powered flying control system that uses electronic inputs to a solenoid operated servo valve rather than the mechanical inputs on conventional power controls. The pilot operates the flight deck controls, which may be a side stick as with Airbus aircraft or a conventional control column and rudder pedals. This in turn operates transducers which convert the mechanical input into an electrical output which is amplified, processed by computers with the processed command signal providing the input to the servo valve which controls the movement of a hydraulic actuator. The A320 is a typical example of an aircraft with a FBW system in which all surfaces are actuated hydraulically and are electrically or mechanically controlled. The main controls architecture is as follows. Pitch Control Elevator control e lectrical. Stabilizer control electrical for normal or alternate control. Mechanical for manual trim control. Roll Control Ailerons e lectrical. Spoilers e lectrical. Yaw Control Rudder mec hanical with electrical for yaw damping, turn co-ordination and trim. Slats and Flaps electrical. Speed Brakes e lectrical. The flight deck controls consist of two side sticks, conventional rudder pedals and pedestal mounted controls and indicators. Electrical control is by three types of computer: • ELAC (Elevator Aileron Computer) There are two of these computers which control the ailerons, elevators and stabilizer. • SEC (Spoilers Elevator Computer) There are three of these computers which control the upper wing surfaces and the standby elevator and stabilizer. • FAC (Flight Augmentation Computer) There are two computers for electrical rudder control. Order: 5422 9 193 Powered Flying Controls 9 Powered Flying Controls Figure 9.11 Fly by wire block diagram Z Z Advantages and Disadvantages of FBW in Comparison to a Conventional Flight Control System Weight FBW systems