=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

water in the airflow. With a temperature below freezing, the thermal switch allows the warning signal to be sent. ID: 5790 Ice and Rain Protection 12 244 12Ice and Rain Protection Beta Particle Ice Detection Probe Two probes, mounted perpendicularly from the forward fuselage, plus a relay and the flight deck warning constitute the basic system. Under nil ice conditions the forward probe, an emitter, will emit Beta particles which are detected by the rear probe, a detector. Beta particles are absorbed by ice so that, in icing conditions, less particles are sensed by the detector. Figure 12.8 Beta particle ice detection probe Figure 1.8. Beta Particle Ice Detection Probe. At a certain Beta particle count rate, corresponding to 0.4 mm of ice, a relay in the detector probe will operate causing a warning on the flight deck. This may take the form of an ECAM system display and a single chime. A system test gives the same indications as above. Ice Formation Spot Light. Many aircraft have two ice formation spot lights mounted one each side of the fuselage, in such a position as to light up the leading edges of the mainplanes, when required, to allow visual examination for ice formation. Note: In some aircraft, this may be the only aid to ice detection at night. An awareness of the in-flight conditions with regard to temperature and moisture is essential for all aircrew, and a general rule for engine protection is to apply it when the IOAT is +10°C or below, and the air contains visible moisture. Airframe protection is generally applied at the onset of indicated icing. This may be from visual indications of leading edges, aerials, windscreen wipers etc. or from the ice detector systems. Ice warnings usually take the form of an amber caution light and can in some systems initiate the de-icing or anti-icing systems if they have been preselected to ‘auto’. However mechanical de-icing by the ‘Boots’ method must not be initiated until a specific depth of ice has built up. Order: 5422 12 245 Ice and Rain Protection 12 Ice and Rain Protection The following list is not exhaustive, but should give an indication of the variety of systems and components which are protected against the effects of ice and rain. • Engine - Intakes - IGVs - Struts or Webs • Oil cooler intakes, fuel system filters. • Ram air intakes for generator cooling or Engine bay ventilation. Aerofoils - Wing and tail leading edges. Slats - Propellers. • Airframe - Aerials - Waste water outlet horns, Large fences and bullets. Instrument Systems - Pitot heads and probes. • Cockpit windows. Mechanical ‘De-icing’ Pneumatic de-icing systems are employed in certain types of piston engined aircraft and twin turbo-propeller aircraft. The number of components comprising a system vary, together with the method of applying the operating principle. The arrangement of a typical system is illustrated schematically in Figure 12.9. Figure 12.9 De-icer boots De-icer Boots. T he de-icer boots, or overshoes, consist of layers of natural rubber and rubberized fabric between which are disposed flat inflatable tubes closed at the ends. The tubes are made of rubberized fabric and are vulcanized inside the rubber layers. In some boots the tubes are so arranged that when the boots are in position on a wing or tailplane leading edge the tubes run parallel to the span; in others they run parallel to the chord. The tubes are connected to the air supply pipelines from the distribution valves system by short lengths of flexible hose secured to connectors on the boots and to the pipelines by hose clips. The external surfaces of the boots are coated with a film of conductive material to bleed off accumulations of static electricity. Depending on the type specified, a boot may be attached to a leading edge either by screw fasteners (rivnuts) or by cementing them directly to the leading edge. ID: 5790 Ice and Rain Protection 12 246 12Ice and Rain Protection Air Supplies and Distribution. The tubes in the boot sections are inflated by air from the pressure side of an engine-driven vacuum pump, from a high-pressure reservoir or in the case of some types of turbo-propeller aircraft, from a tapping at an engine compressor stage. At the end of an inflation stage of the operating sequence, and whenever the system is switched off, the boots are deflated by vacuum derived from the vacuum pump or, in systems utilizing an engine compressor tapping, from the Venturi section of an ejector nozzle. The method of distributing air supplies to the boots depends on the de-icing systems required for a particular type of aircraft but, in general, three methods are in use. One method employs shuttle valves which are controlled by a separate solenoid valve; in the second method air is distributed to each boot by individual solenoid-controlled valves; in the third method distribution is effected by a motor-driven valve. Figure 12.10 Schematic diagram of a pneumatic de-icing system Controls and Indicators. The controls and indicators required for the operation of a de-icing system depend on the type of aircraft and on the particular arrangement of its de-icing system. In the basic arrangement, a main on-off switch, pressure and vacuum gauges or indicating lights form part of the controlling section. Pressure and vacuum is applied to the boots in an alternating timed sequence and the methods adopted usually vary with the methods of air distribution referred to above. In most installations, however, timing control is effected by means of an electronic device. Reference should always be made to the relevant aircraft Maintenance Manual for details of the appropriate controlling system and time cycles. Order: 5422 12 247 Ice and Rain Protection 12 Ice and Rain Protection Operation. When the system is switched on, pressure is admitted to the boot sections to inflate the tubes. The inflation weakens the bond between ice and the boot surfaces, causing the ice to break away. At the end of the inflation stage of the operating sequence, the air in the tubes is dumped to atmosphere through automatic opening valves and the tubes are fully deflated by the vacuum supply. This inflation and deflation cycle is repeated during the period the system is in operation. When the system is switched off vacuum is supplied continually to all tubes of the boot sections to hold the sections flat against the wing and tail leading edges thus minimizing aerodynamic drag. The de-icer boots are pulsated in a set cycle, the frequency of which can be varied by the frequency selector to cater for light or heavy icing conditions. For cycling purposes, the boots are usually divided into three groups as follows: Group 1 - Port and Starboard mainplane outboard boots. Group 2 - Port and Starboard mainplane inboard boots. Group 3 - Fin and tailplane boots. The cycle takes 34 seconds, irrespective of the selection made on the cyclic frequency selector. The selector merely alters the delay period between cycles, e.g. 206 seconds for light icing and 26 seconds for heavy icing. Thermal ‘Anti-icing’ and ‘De-icing’ Hot air systems on modern aircraft are generally engine bleed air and are said to be ‘anti-icing’. Other methods of obtaining the hot air will be described, and depending on the duration of application and the temperature applied, they may be either de-icing or anti-icing systems. Note: Some large jet transport aircraft are not equipped with tailplane ice protection. These aircraft have been certified assuming that they have ice on the tail. In systems of this type, the leading edge sections of wings including leading edge slats but not leading edge flaps, and tail units are usually provided with a second, inner skin positioned to form a small gap between it and the inside of the leading edge section. Heated air is ducted to the wings and tail units and passes into the gap, providing sufficient heat in the outer skin of the leading edge to melt ice already formed and prevent further ice formation. The air is exhausted to atmosphere through outlets in the skin surfaces and also, in some cases, in the tips of wings and tail units. The temperature of the air within the ducting and leading edge sections is controlled by a shutter or butterfly type valve system, the operation of which depends on the type of heating system employed. A gas turbine engine presents a critical icing problem, and therefore requires protection against ice formation particularly at the air intake, nose bullet or fairing and inlet guide vanes. Icing of these regions can considerably restrict the airflow causing a loss in performance and, furthermore, cause damage to the compressor as a result of ice breaking away and being ingested by the compressor. There are two thermal systems in use for air intake de/anti-icing; a hot air bleed system and an electrical resistance heating system, and although the latter is usually chosen for turbo- propeller engines to provide protection for the propeller, there are some examples