=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

to brake seal leaks. 4. Operate the brak es and check that pressures are maintained. 5. A llow brake cooling time of 5 minutes for each 1.0 KE in excess of 5.0 KE. Normal Zone - (5 to 17.0 KE) 1. A llow brake cooling time of 5 minutes for each 1.0 KE in excess of 5.0 KE. Below 5 KE. 1. No brake coo ling time necessary. 2. No special instructions. ID: 5790 Aircraft Brakes 6 142 6Aircraft Brakes Brake Temperature Indicators Larger aircraft types, (B747, B777, A340, A380 etc.) may be fitted with Brake Temperature Indicators. Sensors are arranged to sample the temperature of the brakes of each individual wheel. An indicator can be used to display the temperature of each pair of wheels as selected on the system control panel. The brake temperatures are constantly monitored by the system, if the temperature of any brake assembly rises above a predetermined level then a “HIGH TEMP” indicator light illuminates. Switch selection on the control panel will now enable the operator to locate the wheel brake or brakes which are triggering the alarm. Should any brake temperature go above that level at which the High Temp warning light illuminates, then a brake “OVERHEAT” caption will come on. This last event is duplicated on the Central Warning System. Figure 6.8 illustrates a Brake Temperature Warning Panel. Figure 6.8 A brake temperature warning panel Order: 5422 6 143 Aircraft Brakes 6 Aircraft Brakes Figure 6.9 A typical ECAM display Courtesy of Airbus Industrie Wing Growth Wing growth is a term used in relation to swept wing aircraft only. Because the centre of the turning circle of modern big jets is not the inboard oleo but a point further outboard, and also because of the swept wing planform, the circle which the outboard wing tip describes is larger than is first apparent. This may not be as great a problem with large aircraft with body gear steering. See Figure 6.10, where the wing growth area is shown in red. Great caution should be exercised when manoeuvring large swept wing aircraft close to obstructions of any sort. Figure 6.10 An illustration of wing growth ID: 5790 Questions 6 144 6Questions Questions 1. O il is used in an oleo strut to: a. su pport the weight of the aircraft b. limit the s peed of compression of the strut c. lubr icate the piston within the cylinder d. limit the s peed of extension and compression of the strut 2. T he nose wheel assembly must be centred before retraction because: a. the re is limited space in the nose wheel bay b. the air craft may swerve on the next landing if the nose wheel is not straight c. the t yres may be damaged on landing if the nose wheel is not straight d. it will r emove any slush or debris which may have accumulated on take-off 3. T he movement of the gear on lowering is normally damped to: a. pr event the fluid becoming aerated b. coun teract the force of gravity which would bring the gear down too fast c. m ake the lowering time greater than the raising time d. pr event the hydraulic fluid becoming overheated 4. Ina dvertent retraction of the landing gear on the ground is: a. no t possible because the system is not powerful enough b. pr evented by the ground/air logic system c. alw ays a danger after the ground locks have been removed d. the r esponsibility of the first officer when he is on the aircraft 5. Cr eep (slippage): a. is no t a problem with tubeless tyres b. r efers to the movement of the aircraft against the brakes c. alignme nt can rip out the inflation valve on tubed tyres, and deflate the tyre d. can be pr evented by painting lines on the wheel and tyre 6. T yre wear when taxiing can be reduced by: a. r estricting the use of brakes and using thrust reversers b. taxiing a t less than 40 kph c. s taying on the smoothest parts of the taxiway d. taxiing a t less than 25 knots 7. T o prevent scrubbing the tyres while taxiing , you should: a. use t yres with fusible plugs b. m ake sharp turns only if you have high speed tyres fitted c. tur n no sharper than the minimum specified radius d. de flate the tyres to a minimum pressure 8. T he best extinguishant to use on a wheel or brake fire is: a. CO2 b. dry po wder c. freon d. water Order: 5422 6 145 Questions 6 Questions 9. Wh en inflating a tyre fitted to an aircraft, the tyre pressure reading on the gauge should be modified by: a. 1 0 psi b. 10% c. 4 p si d. 4% 10. T he most likely cause of brake fade is: a. oil o r grease on the brake drums b. w orn stators c. the pilo t reducing the brake pressure d. the br ake pads overheating 11. T he pressure needed to operate the wheel brakes on a large aircraft comes from: a. the air craft main hydraulic system b. the pilo ts brake pedals c. a se lf-contained power pack d. the h ydraulic reservoir 12. Whi ch of the following statements will produce the shortest landing run? i . Cro ssing the threshold at the correct height and speed ii . A pplying full anti-skid braking as quickly as possible after touchdown iii . U sing maximum pedal pressure but releasing the pressure as the wheels start to skid i v. T he use of cadence braking v . U se of minimum braking pressure early in the landing run and maximum pressure towards the end vi . A pplication of reverse thrust as early as possible in the landing run vii . D eployment of the lift dumpers/speed brakes as early as possible in the landing run a. (i), (ii), (vi), (vii) b. (i), (iii), (vi), (vii) c. (i), (iv), (vi), (vii) d. (i), (v), (vi), (vii) 13. T he formula which gives the minimum speed (V P) at which aquaplaning may occur is: a. VP = 9 × √P where P is kg/cm2 and VP is in knots b. VP = 9 × √P where P is psi and VP is in mph c. VP = 9 × √P where P is psi and VP is in knots d. VP = 34 × √P where P is kg/cm2 and VP is in mph 14. An air craft has a tyre pressure of 225 psi, its minimum aquaplaning speed will be: a. 1 35 mph b. 1 35 knots c. 1 45 knots d. 1 45 mph ID: 5790 Questions 6 146 6Questions 15. L anding gear ground locking pins are: a. fitt ed before flight to ensure the landing gear locks are fully cocked b. r emoved prior to flight and returned to stores c. fitt ed after flight to maintain a hydraulic lock in the downlock jack d. r emoved prior to flight and stowed on the aircraft where they are visible to the crew 16. T he most likely cause of brake unit dragging is: a. dir t between the rotor and stator assemblies b. gr ease on the rotor assembly c. the br ake pressure being too high d. inco rrect operation of the adjuster assemblies 17. A lik ely cause of nose wheel shimmy is: a. air craft is overweight b. the t yre pressures are too high c. the air craft is incorrectly loaded d. a t orque link is worn or damaged 18. Cr eep (slippage): a. can d amage the braking system b. can be mea sured by painting marks on the tyre and wheel rim c. m ay cause excess wear d. ne ver occurs on new tyres 19. T he anti-skid system would be used: a. o n landing runs only b. o n take-off runs only c. f or take-off on icy runways d. f or both take off and landing runs 20. A h ydraulic gear extension/retraction mechanism consists of sequence valves, uplocks and: a. an an ti-skid braking system b. downlocks c. t orque links d. a shoc k absorber 21. A n ose wheel steering control system: a. pr events the nose wheel from castoring at all times b. allo ws the nose wheel to castor within preset limits about the neutral position c. allo ws the nose wheel to castor freely at all times d. pr events the nose gear from lowering if the nose wheels are not centralized Order: 5422 6 147 Questions 6 Questions 22. A t an aircraft taxiing speed of 10 mph the anti-skid braking system is: a. inoperative b. operative c. o perative only on the nose wheel brakes d. o perative only on the main wheel brakes 23. T he tyre