=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

wheel loadings are in considerable use. These replace large single wheels using high pressure tyres with a number of small wheels using low pressure tyres: the larger aircraft (B747, B777 and A340) may have 10 to 18 wheels in their landing gear. More than two main legs may be provided to spread the load, wing and body gear on a 747, 777 and A340 for example. The actual configuration chosen for the aircraft is determined by the problem of stowage when retracted as well as the load spreading consideration. Order: 5422 3 99 Landing Gear 3 Landing Gear Multi-wheeled units have advantages other than just reduction of wheel loading. These are: • Weight. The greater the number of wheels, the lighter the unit can become as the wheels are smaller. This point is hard to prove, since with the size of today’s modern aircraft, a single wheel unit would be impracticable anyway. • Ease of Servicing . Although the whole unit is more complex, the changing of wheels or brake units is easier than on a single wheel U/C and individual components are much nearer the ground. • Greater Safety Factor. In the event of a burst tyre there will be one or more serviceable wheels remaining to carry the load. • Ease of On Board Stowage . Multi-wheel units are easier to stow, however, most undercarriages are designed to fit in the space available. The thickness of the wing plays a big part, thin wings mean that specially designed folding and swivelling bogies have to be used, which in turn escalates the costs and makes general routine servicing more complex. Some aircraft tend to have their U/C as part of the fuselage, thus easing the design problem, and allowing the gear to be raised and lowered vertically. The main disadvantage of multi-wheel bogie units is that they have a large footprint area, which causes the unit to crab whilst turning. Due to this unfortunate side effect, the turning radius has to be increased with the resultant manoeuvring problems on the ground. Tyre wear caused by scrubbing also occurs because the forces applied to the tread are considerable, and the smaller the radius of the turn the greater are these forces. The tread of the tyre becomes torn and can split to expose the casing fabric. To minimize this occurrence it is recommended that the aircraft be manoeuvred on the ground using the largest turning circle possible, tight turns are to be avoided if at all possible and the aircraft should be moved in a straight line for a short distance before stopping. Landing Gear Operation on Contaminated Runways Problems have occurred on aircraft which have taken off from runways contaminated with slush, a mixture of water, wet snow and ice. It has been found, on more than one occasion, that because of slush deposited on the gear during the take-off run freezing in the landing gear bay during the climb and cruise, the crew have been unsuccessful in lowering the gear upon arrival at their destination. If it is absolutely essential that you take off in such poor conditions, then you are advised to cycle the gear just after take-off , selecting the gear UP, DOWN, and then UP again. It is considered that the shocks inflicted on the gear during this cycle should be sufficient to remove any deposits from it. ID: 5790 Landing Gear 3 100 3Landing Gear A Hydraulic Gear Retraction System A hydraulic system for retracting and extending a landing gear normally takes its power from engine driven pumps, alternative system being available in case of pump failure. On some light aircraft a self-contained ‘power pack’ is used, which houses a reservoir and selector valves for the landing gear and flap systems; an electrically driven pump may also be included, or the system may be powered by engine driven pumps. This type of system normally provides for powered retraction of the landing gear, extension being by ‘free-fall’, with the assistance of spring struts. System Retraction Operation of the system is as follows:- Figure 3.5. When the landing gear selector is moved to the ‘up’ position fluid is directed to the ‘up’ line and a return path is created for ‘down’ line fluid. ‘Up’ line fluid flows to the Nose Landing Gear (NLG) Down (DN) Lock which is released. Simultaneously fluid goes to the NLG Jack which retracts. Fluid is also ported through the one way restrictor (Free Flow) to Sequence Valve 1 (SV1), where it waits for the Main Landing Gear (MLG) downlock which releases and to the MLG Jack which extends and raises the Main Undercarriage. Order: 5422 3 101 Landing Gear 3 Landing Gear Figure 3.5 The initial retraction sequence UP DOWNSUPPLY RETURN SELECTOR VALVE ONE WAY RESTRICTOR MAIN LG DOWN LOCK MAIN LG JACK MAIN LG UPLOCK TORSION LINK NOSE LG JACK NOSE LG UPLOCK DOOR JACK SV1 SV2 INNER DOOR NOSE LG DOWN LOCK TO PORT MAIN LG UP LINE DOWN LINE ID: 5790 Landing Gear 3 102 3Landing Gear Figure 3.6 The gear locking up When the nose undercarriage is fully retracted, it is retained in position by the NLG uplock (Hydraulically Released-Spring Applied). As the MLG reaches full retraction it activates SV1, which allows the supply of fluid to the Door Jack - which retracts, closing the Main Undercarriage Door. Finally the MLG uplock (Hydraulically Released-Spring Applied) engages, locking the gear up. (On some aircraft the selector valve is placed in the neutral position after the U/C is raised, leaving the gear un-pressurized for the period of the cruise, so extending component life.) Order: 5422 3 103 Landing Gear 3 Landing Gear Figure 3.7 Initial movement when ‘gear down’ selected When the selector is moved to the ‘down’ position, fluid is directed to the NLG uplock, which is released, and to the NLG Jack which extends and lowers the Nose Gear. At the same time fluid is ported to Sequence Valve 2 (SV2), where it waits and to the Door Jack which will extend to open the door. The door jack return fluid passes through SV1 and the One Way Restrictor (Restricted Flow) which restricts the rate of fluid return acting as a door speed damper. ID: 5790 Landing Gear 3 104 3Landing Gear Figure 3.8 The final movement of the gear being locked down When the door is fully open, it activates SV2 which allows fluid both to the MLG uplock, which releases, and to the MLG Jack, which retracts and pulls the MLG into the down position. Return fluid passes through the one way restrictor ( Restricted Flow ) the restriction acting as a damper to the rate of undercarriage travel thus preventing damage to the U/C mountings etc. Finally the MLG locks into place when it engages with the MLG downlock. NOTE: R estrictor valves are normally fitted to limit the speed (rate) of lowering of the main undercarriage units, which are influenced in this direction by gravity. The nose undercarriage often lowers against the slipstream and does not need the protection of a restrictor valve. Order: 5422 3 105 Landing Gear 3 Landing Gear Figure 3.9 A simple pneumatic gear retraction system A Pneumatic Retraction System Operation of a pneumatic retraction system like the one shown in Figure 3.9, is similar to that of a hydraulic system, except that pressure in the return lines is exhausted to atmosphere through the selector valve. Pressure is built up in a main storage cylinder by engine driven air pumps, and passes through a pressure reducing valve to the landing gear selector valve. Operation of the selector valve to the ‘UP’ position directs pneumatic pressure through the ‘up’ lines to the retraction rams, and opens the down line to atmosphere. Operation of the selector valve to the ‘DOWN’ position directs pneumatic pressure through a second pressure reducing valve and the down lines, to the uplock rams and retraction rams. NOTE: A low pressure is used for landing gear extension, for the same reason that restrictor valves are used in hydraulic systems, which is to prevent damage occurring through too rapid extension of the undercarriage units. Retraction rams are usually damped to prevent violent movement. The hollow piston rod is filled with oil or grease, which is forced through the space between the inner surface of the piston rod and a stationary damper piston whenever the ram extends or retracts, thus slowing movement. Uplocks and downlocks are similar to those used with hydraulic systems, the geometric down- locks being imposed by over-centring of the drag strut at the end of retraction ram stroke, and the uplocks by spring-ram operated locks. ID: 5790 Landing Gear 3 106 3Landing Gear Downlocks are released by initial movement of the retraction rams during retraction, and up- locks are released by pneumatic pressure in the spring-rams during extension. Undercarriage doors are operated mechanically, by a linkage on the shock absorber housing. An Electrical Gear Retraction System An electrical retraction system is often fitted to light