=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

contain small cracks or contaminants that concentrate stress. Fatigue cracks will start at these points so removing any defects will increase the fatigue strength Station Numbers A method of locating components on the aircraft must be established in order that maintenance and repairs can be carried out. This is achieved by identifying reference lines and station numbers for fuselage, wings, empennage, etc. Fuselage station lines are determined by reference to a zero datum line (fuselage station 0.00) at or near the forward portion of the aircraft as defined by the manufacturer. Station numbers are given in inches forward (negative and given a - sign) or aft (positive and with a + sign) of the zero datum. Wing stations are measured from the centre line of the aircraft and are also given in inches left or right of the centre line. Vertical position from a ground line or horizontal datum can be known as a Water Line (WL), given as a dimension in inches from the horizontal datum. Order: 5422 1 9 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces 1 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces Figure 1.7 Various stations on a corporate jet aircraft ID: 5790 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces 1 10 1Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces Figure 1.8 Various stations on a corporate jet aircraft Order: 5422 1 11 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces 1 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces Aircraft Structures Fuselage The fuselage is the main structure or body of the aircraft and carries the aircraft payload i.e. the passengers and/or freight as well as the flight crew and cabin staff in safe, comfortable conditions. It also provides the flight crew with an effective position for operating the aircraft and space for controls, accessories and other equipment. It transfers loads to and from the main planes (wings), tailplanes, fin, landing gear and, in certain configurations, the power plants. Pressurized Aircraft Structures must also be capable of supporting the axial and hoop stresses imposed by the pressurization forces. Axial Stress Axial or longitudinal stresses are set up in the fuselage of aircraft when pressurized and tend to elongate the fuselage. Hoop Stress Hoop or radial stresses are set up in addition to axial stress and tend to expand fuselage cross section area. The internal pressures that set up these stresses can be as high as 65.5 kN/m 2 (9.5 psi). Figure 1.9 Fuselage Design The fuselage can be built in a number of cross-sections. They all have advantages and disadvantages. Rectangular Many non-pressurized aircraft use this shape due to cost constraints. They are easier to construct but do have a high weight to strength ratio ID: 5790 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces 1 12 1Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces Circular This is an ideal shape for pressurized aircraft as the hoop stresses are spread evenly throughout the structure. It requires cheaper tooling and is a relatively easy build. Sometimes considerable amounts of space are wasted when certain passenger / cargo configurations have to be accommodated. Oval An oval is less efficient than a circular shape but is frequently used to complete pressure hull construction behind the rear bulkhead. Double Bubble These are similar to a figure eight. They provide effective use of space for both passengers and cargo whilst not having the increased drag of a large circular fuselage, and they are cost effective. Recent designs favour a side-by-side bubble. These allow for larger number of passengers for a given structural weight and are said to be very efficient due to reduced drag. Engines would be rear mounted Fuselage Construction There are three main types of construction in use: • Truss or framework type generally used for light, non-pressurized, aircraft. • Monocoque - Generally used for light aircraft • Semi-monocoque is more widely used on most other aircraft. This type of structure is now generally referred to as Stressed Skin Order: 5422 1 13 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces 1 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces Framework The framework consists of light gauge steel tubes welded together to form a space frame of triangular shape to give the most rigid of geometric forms with each tube carrying a specific load the magnitude of which depends on whether the aircraft is airborne or on the ground. It is a strong, easily constructed and relatively trouble free basic structure. The framework is covered by a lightweight aluminium alloy or fabric skin to give an enclosed, aerodynamically efficient load carrying compartment. Figure 1.10 The Auster ID: 5790 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces 1 14 1Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces Monocoque Construction Figure 1.11 In a monocoque structure all the loads are taken by the skin with just light internal frames or formers to give the required shape. Even slight damage to the skin can seriously weaken the structure. Extra strength needs to be built in around holes in the structure for windows, doors or undercarriages as these will weaken the structure. This type of construction is only suitable for smaller aircraft. Semi-monocoque Construction As aircraft became larger and the air loads greater the pure monocoque structure was not strong enough and additional structural members known as stringers (stiffeners) and longerons were added to run lengthwise along the fuselage joining the frames together. The light alloy skin is then attached to the frames and stringers by riveting or adhesive bonding. Stringers stiffen the skin and assist the sheet materials to carry loads along their length. Good examples of longerons are the seat rails of passenger aircraft. Figure 1.12 Semi-monocoque structure Order: 5422 1 15 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces 1 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces Longerons Longerons are beams in the fuselage that are fitted longitudinally from nose to tail. They are often placed below the floor and take the main bending loads of the aircraft. There are a number of methods of construction. Figure 1.13 Frames Frames are vertical structures that are open in their centre. They are designed to take the major loads and give the aircraft its shape Figure 1.14 ID: 5790 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces 1 16 1Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces Bulkheads The bulkheads are similar to frames but are usually solid but may have access doors. They are also designed to give the fuselage its shape and take some of the main loads. Two of the major bulkheads in a transport aircraft are the front and rear bulkheads which separate the pressurized and unpressurized areas Figure 1.15 Firewalls There has to be means of separating the flight deck and cabin from the engine. This is called a firewall. The firewall is required to protect the flight crew and passengers in the event of an engine fire. These are constructed using heat resistant stainless steel or titanium alloy. These materials have the ability to withstand moderate temperatures for prolonged periods whilst also being able to withstand high temperatures for a short time. Titanium can be exposed to up to 3000°C for short periods. Order: 5422 1 17 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces 1 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces Crossbeams Crossbeams are used to add strength to the aircraft and support the passenger or cargo floor. Modern aircraft use sandwich or honeycomb materials for the floor panels. Figure 1.16 A floor crossbeam Floor Venting Blow-out panels, which open automatically to equalize the pressure across the floor structure, may be installed to prevent distortion of the flooring during a rapid decompression Doublers When cut-outs are made to stressed skin structures, for example to provide access panels, passenger windows or when repairs are required to damaged areas, reinforcement, in the form of DOUBLERS or backing plates, is required around the cut-out. If the skin is machined from the solid the skin around windows etc. is left thicker than the rest of the skin to provide the required reinforcement. Figure 1.17 ID: 5790 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces 1 18 1Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces Figure 1.18 Flight Deck and Passenger Cabin Windows Flight Deck Windows The flight deck windows fitted to pressurized aircraft must withstand both the loads of pressurization and impact loads from birdstrikes. They are constructed from toughened glass panels attached to each side of a clear vinyl interlayer. An electrically conducting coating, applied to the inside of the outer glass panel is used to heat the window. This prevents ice from forming and makes the window more resilient and able to withstand birdstrikes. The shock loading of a birdstrike impact is absorbed by the ability of the vinyl interlayer to stretch and deform should the impact be great enough to shatter the glass. Windscreens are attached to the frame by bolts passing through the edge of the windscreen. The aircraft, and therefore by implication the windscreen, must be capable of continued safe flight and landing after impact with a 4 lb (2 kg) bird when the velocity of the aeroplane is equal to VC (design cruise speed) at sea level, or 0.85VC at 8000 ft, which ever is the most critical. i.e. the windscreen must be able to withstand