=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

heat of fusion, (caused by the water droplets changing from liquid to solid upon impact) (Plus). • evaporation (Minus). • convection (Minus). Figure 12.2 Where airframe icing occurs Three different situations arise, depending on whether the surface temperature is less than, equal to or greater than 0°C. When the temperature is less than 0°C, all the impinging water droplets are frozen, and when it is above 0°C none are frozen. ID: 5790 Ice and Rain Protection 12 240 12Ice and Rain Protection However, for a particular set of atmospheric conditions and altitudes it is found that there is quite a wide aircraft speed range over which the energy balance gives a skin temperature of 0°C. This energy balance occurs at one end of the speed range by all the droplets freezing and at the other by none freezing. The potential “catch rate” or “impingement rate” and the actual icing rate are thus not simply related in this region. The “no icing hazard” speed depends, therefore, upon the free water content of the atmosphere as well as the temperature and altitude. For severe conditions it is about the maximum speed of subsonic aircraft. The final influencing factor of note is that icing does not occur above about 12 000 m (40 000 ft) since the dr oplets are all frozen and in the form of ice crystals and will not adhere to the aircraft’s surface. Requirements and Standards of Protection The aircraft must be cleared of ice, frost and snow prior to dispatch, and CS-OPS requires that public transport aircraft shall be provided with certain protective equipment for flights in which the weather reports available at the time of departure indicate the probability that conditions predisposing to ice formation will be encountered. Certain basic standards have to be met by all aircraft whether or not they are required to be protected by the requirements of CS-OPS, and these are intended to provide a reasonable protection if the aircraft is flown unintentionally for short periods in icing conditions. The requirements specified in CS-OPS cover such considerations as the stability and control balance characteristics, jamming of controls and the ability of the engine to continue to function in icing conditions. Two different approaches are generally used: • ‘De-icing’ where ice is allowed to accumulate prior to being removed. • ‘Anti-icing’ where the object is to prevent any ice accumulation. There are a number of avenues which need exploring and these include detection and warning systems and the methods used to protect the aircraft, which can be any or all of the following: • Pneumatic Expan ding rubber boots - mechanical. • Thermal Elec trically heated. Oil heated. Air heated. • Liquid F reezing point depressant fluids. (FPD) • Ice detection I s provided automatically by the provision of ice detectors which relay a warning to the flight crew. • Anti-icing I s the application of continuous heat or fluid. • De-icing I s the intermittent application of fluid, heat or mechanical effort. These aspects will all be dealt with in detail later. Order: 5422 12 241 Ice and Rain Protection 12 Ice and Rain Protection Detection Devices and Warnings There are three main types of ice detector in current use: • the ice detector head. (Accretion principle) • the mechanical ice detector. (Accretion principle ) • the element ice sensing unit. (Inferential principle) Ice Detector Heads Teddington Ice Detector . This detector consists of an aerofoil shaped mast protruding into the airflow and visible from the cockpit. The mast incorporates a heater element and a light to illuminate the mast at night ( Figure 12.3). When icing conditions are encountered in flight, with the heater power supply switched off, ice accumulates on the mast and gives a direct visual indication of ice accretion. The heater may be switched on to dissipate accumulated ice. Smiths Ice Detector. The Smiths ice detector consists of a hollow tube, attached to the aircraft by one end and has holes drilled in the leading and trailing faces; there are four holes in the leading edge and two in the trailing edge (Figure 12.4). In flight under normal conditions, there is a pressure build up in the probe which is sensed by a relay unit at the open base of the tube. In icing conditions, the leading edge holes become blocked by ice and a negative pressure is created in the hollow tube, causing the relay unit to give a warning. A heater element is fitted around the tube to dissipate accumulated ice. Figure 12.3 Teddington ice detector Figure 12.4 Smiths ice detector ID: 5790 Ice and Rain Protection 12 242 12Ice and Rain Protection Mechanical Ice Detectors Rotary (Napier) Ice Detector. In the Napier ice detector a serrated rotor shaft is continuously driven by an electric motor. The shaft rotates adjacent to a fixed knife-edge cutter (see Figure 12.5), with a clearance between them of less than 0.002 inches. The unit is mounted on the aircraft fuselage with the rotor axis at right angles to the airflow and with the cutter in the lee of the shaft. Under normal conditions, little torque is required to drive the rotor. In icing conditions, ice builds up on the rotor and is shaved off by the cutter. This requires greater rotational torque and causes the motor to rotate slightly in its flexible mountings. This movement operates a microswitch which gives an ice warning, or automatically initiates the anti-icing sequence. The warning remains as long as ice continues to foul the cutter blade. Rosemount (Vibrating Rod) Ice Detector. This detector consists of a short cylindrical probe mounted on a vibrator housing which vibrates the probe axially at about 35 kHz (see Figure 12.6). If ice builds up on the probe, the added mass reduces the resonant frequencies. When the frequency falls to a predetermined level, an ice warning is given. The warning signal also operates a built in heater element in the probe to shed accumulated ice. After six seconds, the heater switches off and the icing cycle recommences. The frequency of the cycle may be measured to give an indication of the ice accretion rate. Figure 12.5 Rotary (Napier) ice detector Figure 12.6 Rosemount ice detector Order: 5422 12 243 Ice and Rain Protection 12 Ice and Rain Protection Element Ice Sensing Unit Sangamo Weston Ice Detector . Ice can only be formed when there is a combination of moisture and freezing temperatures. In the Sangamo Weston ice detector, these two conditions are detected separately and, therefore, icing conditions are detected rather than actual ice formation. The system comprises three main components (see Figure 12.7). • Moisture Detector Controller . The Sangamo Weston Ice Detector is an example of an Inferential method of ice detection. All other ice detectors use the principle of Ice Accretion. This controller is situated in the base of the unit and senses the temperature difference between the “wet” and “dry” sensing bulbs. When the temperature difference reaches a predetermined value, and provided that the thermal switch is made, relays operate an ice warning or initiate the anti-icing or de-icing cycles. Figure 12.7 Sangamo Weston ice detector • Moisture Sensing Head. This consists of two heated metal resistance bulbs situated in the airflow and arranged so that the leading bulb screens the rear one so that no moisture impinges upon it. When the detector encounters free water in the airflow, the shielded rear bulb remains dry and cools at a slower rate than the wet leading bulb. • Thermal Switch. This is a contact operating thermometer which is housed in a bulb and is exposed to ambient temperature. When the temperature is above freezing, the thermal switch prevents the moisture detector from sending an ice warning signal, even though the latter unit is sensing the presence of water in the airflow. With a temperature below freezing, the thermal switch allows the warning signal to be sent. ID: 5790 Ice and Rain Protection 12 244 12Ice and Rain Protection Beta Particle Ice Detection Probe Two probes, mounted perpendicularly from the forward fuselage, plus a relay and the flight deck warning constitute the basic system. Under nil ice conditions the forward probe, an emitter, will emit Beta particles which are detected by the rear probe, a detector. Beta particles are absorbed by ice so that, in icing conditions, less particles are sensed by the detector. Figure 12.8 Beta particle ice detection probe Figure 1.8. Beta Particle Ice Detection Probe. At a certain Beta particle count rate, corresponding to 0.4 mm of ice, a relay in the detector probe will operate causing a warning on the flight deck. This may take the form of an ECAM system display and a single chime. A system test gives the same indications as above. Ice Formation Spot Light. Many aircraft have two ice formation spot lights mounted one each side of the fuselage, in such a position as to light up the leading edges of the mainplanes, when required, to allow visual examination