=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

products are regarded as meet ing this standard simply by using current commonly-accepted industry practice. Annex to ED Decision 2007/010/R Amendment 3 Order: 5422 1 37 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces 1 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces CS-25 BOOK 2 2-F-44 (2) Determining the Average Probability per Flight Hour of each Failure Condition using structured methods, such as Fault Tree Analysis, Markov Analysis, or Dependency Diagrams; and (3) Demonstrating that the sum of the Average Probabilities per Flight Hour of all Catastrophic Failure Conditions caused by system s is of the order of 10 -7 or less (See paragraph 6a for background). 9. COMPLIANCE WITH CS 25.1309. This paragraph describes specific means of compliance for CS 25.1309. The applicant should obtain early concurrence of the certification authority on the choice of an accept able means of compliance. a. Compliance with CS 25.1309(a). (1) Equipment covered by 25.1309(a)(1) must be show n to function properly when installed. The aeroplane operating and environmental conditions over which proper functioning of the equipment, systems, and installation is required to be considered includes the full normal operating envelope of the aeroplane as defined by the Aeroplane Flight Manual together with any modification to that envelope associated with abnormal or emergency procedures. Ot her external environmental condi tions such as atmospheric turbulence, HIRF, lightning, and pr ecipitation, which the aeroplane is reasonably expected to encounter, should also be considered. The severity of the external environmental conditions which should be considered are limited to t hose established by certific ation standards and precedence. (2) In addition to the external operating and environmental conditions, the effect of the environment within the aeroplane should be considered. These effects should include vibration and acceleration loads, variations in fluid pressure and electrical power, fl uid or vapour contamination, due either to the normal environment or accidental leaks or spillage and handli ng by personnel. Document referenced in paragraph 3b(1) defines a series of standar d environmental test conditions and procedures, which may be used to support compliance. Equipment covered by (CS) Te chnical Standard Orders containing environmental test procedures or equipment qualified to other environmental test standards can be used to support compliance. The conditions under which the installed equipment will be operated should be equal to or less severe than the environment for which the equipment is qualified. (3) The required substantiation of the proper functioning of equipment, sy stems, and installations under the operating and environmental conditions approved for the aeroplane may be show n by test and/or analysis or reference to comparable service experience on other aeroplanes. It must be show n that the comparable service experience is valid for the proposed installation. For the equipment systems and installations covered by CS 25.1309(a)(1), the compliance demonstration should also c onfirm that the normal functioning of such equipment, systems, and installations does not interfere with the pr oper functioning of other equipment, systems, or installations covered by CS 25.1309(a)(1). (4) The equipment, systems, and installations covered by CS 25.1309(a)(2) are typically those associated with amenities for passengers such as passenger enter tainment systems, in-flight telephones, etc., whose failure or improper functioning in itself should not affect the safe ty of the aeroplane. Operational and environmental qualification r equirements for those equipment, systems, and installations are reduced to the tests that are necessary to show that their normal or abnormal functi oning does not adversely affect the proper functioning of the equipment, systems, or installations cove red by CS 25.1309(a)(1) and does not otherwise adversely influence the safe ty of the aeroplane or its occupants. Examples of adverse influences are: fire, explosion, exposing passengers to high voltages, etc. b. Compliance with CS 25.1309(b). Paragraph 25.1309(b) requires that the aeroplane systems and associated components, considered separately and in relation to other systems must be designed so that any Catastrophic Failure Condition is Extremely Improbable and does not result from a single failure. It also requires that any Hazardous Failure Condition is extremely Remote, and that any Ma jor Failure Condition is Remote. An analysis should always consider the application of the Fail-Safe design concept described in paragraph 6b, and give special attention to ensuring the effective use of design techniques that would pr event single failures or other events Annex to ED Decision 2007/010/R Amendment 3 ID: 5790 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces 1 38 1Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces CS-25 BOOK 2 2-F-45 Annex to ED Decision 2007/010/R from damaging or otherwise adversely affecting more than one redundant system channel or more than one system performing operationally similar functions. (1) General. Compliance with the requirements of CS 25.1309(b) should be shown by analysis and, where necessary, by appropriate ground, flight, or simulator tests. Failure Conditions should be identified and their effects assessed. The maximum allowable probability of the occurrence of each Failure Condition is determined from the Failure Condition’s effects, and when assessing the probabilities of Failure Conditions appropriate analysis considerations should be accounted for. Any analysis must consider: (i) Possible Failure Conditions and their causes, modes of failure, and damage from sources external to the system. (ii) The possibility of multiple failures and undetected failures. (iii) The possibility of requirement, design and implementation errors. (iv) The effect of reasonably anticipated crew errors after the occurrence of a failure or Failure Condition. (v) The effect of reasonably anticipated errors when performing maintenance actions. (vi) The crew alerting cues, corrective action required, and the capability of detecting faults. (vii) The resulting effects on the aeroplane and occupants, considering the stage of flight and operating and environmental conditions. (2) Planning. This AMC provides guidance on methods of accomplishing the safety objective. The detailed methodology needed to achieve this safety objective will depend on many factors, in particular the degree of systems complexity and integration. For aeroplanes containing many complex or integrated systems, it is likely that a plan will need to be developed to describe the intended process. This plan should include consideration of the following aspects: (i) Functional and physical interrelationships of systems. (ii) Determination of detailed means of compliance, which may include the use of Development Assurance techniques. (iii) Means for establishing the accomplishment of the plan. (3) Availability of Industry Standards and Guidance Materials. There are a variety of acceptable techniques currently being used in industry, which may or may not be reflected in Documents referenced in paragraphs 3b(3) and 3b(4). This AMC is not intended to compel the use of these documents during the definition of the particular method of satisfying the objectives of this AMC. However, these documents do contain material and methods of performing the System Safety Assessment. These methods, when correctly applied, are recognised by the Agency as valid for showing compliance with CS 25.1309(b). In addition, Document referenced in paragraph 3b(4) contains tutorial information on applying specific engineering methods (e.g. Markov Analysis, Fault Tree Analysis) that may be utilised in whole or in part. (4) Acceptable Application of Development Assurance Methods. Paragraph 9b(1)(iii) above requires that any analysis necessary to show compliance with CS 25.1309(b) must consider the possibility of requirement, design, and implementation errors. Errors made during the design and development of systems have traditionally been detected and corrected by exhaustive tests conducted on the system and its components, by direct inspection, and by other direct verification methods capable of completely characterising the performance of the system. These direct techniques may still be appropriate for simple systems which perform a limited number of functions and which are not highly integrated with other aeroplane systems. For more complex or integrated systems, exhaustive testing may either be impossible because all of the system states cannot be determined or impractical because of the number of tests which must be accomplished. For these types of systems, compliance maybe shown by the use of Development Assurance. The level of Development Assurance should be determined by the severity of potential effects on the aeroplane in case of system malfunctions or loss of functions. Order: 5422 1 39 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces 1 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces Hard Time & On-condition Maintenance Hard Time Maintenance This is a procedure under which an item must be removed from service before its scheduled maintenance period for inspection or repair. “On-condition” Maintenance On-condition maintenance uses an inspection or functional check to determine an item’s performance. This may result in the removal of an item before it fails in service. It is applied to items where their continued airworthiness can be determined by visual inspection, measurements, tests or other means without disassembly inspection or overhaul. The condition of an item is monitored either continuously or at specified periods and its performance compared to an appropriate standard to determine if it can continue in service. ID: 5790 Questions 1 40 1Questions Questions 1. Wh at is the purpose of the wing main spar? a. T o withstand bending and torsional loads b. T o withstand compressive and torsional loads c. T o withstand compressive and shear loads d. T o withstand bending and