=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

through an integral filter. The pump has a single inlet and a number of delivery outlets to feed the distributors on the aerofoil leading edges. A diagrammatic layout is shown in Figure 12.14. The pump consists of a main casting which incorporates a pump body, a filter chamber, and a gear casing. When the pump is incorporated in a system, the pump body and the filter chamber are flooded with de-icing fluid which acts as a lubricant. To protect the pump and the system from damage due to pipe blockage etc. the pump incorporates a safety device which relieves abnormal pressure by reducing the flow. There are two types of distributor for use with the system, i.e. strip and panel. The panel distributors cover a large area of the aerofoil leading edge, and are more economical and efficient than strip distributors. They have the disadvantage of not being suitable for surfaces with double curvature, e.g. fins where the strip distributor has to be used. The panel distributor is fitted over, or let into the leading edges of the mainplanes and tailplane. It consists of a porous outer panel, a microporous sheet, and a back plate. The porous panel extends beyond the edges of the porous sheet, and screws passing through the panel secure the distributor to the aerofoil surface. An entry connector, which accommodates a metering tube, passes through the backplate to which it is bolted. A sectional view of a panel distributor is shown inset in Figure 12.14. Figure 12.14 Fluid systems ID: 5790 Ice and Rain Protection 12 252 12Ice and Rain Protection The fluid enters the connector from the main supply pipe, passes through the metering tube, and enters the cavity between the backplate and the porous sheet. The fluid then seeps through the porous sheet of the distributor, and is distributed over the aerofoil surfaces by the air stream. The strip distributors are inserted in the leading edge of the aerofoil, and are connected, in series to the main supply pipe. The fluid fills the primary feed channel and passes through the flow control tubes into the secondary feed channel. The fluid in the secondary feed channel filters through the porous metal side and onto the leading edge of the aerofoil. Windscreen Protection Windscreen protection is provided by fluid sprays, electrical heating, and cabin air may be provided for demisting. Electrical heating may be within the main windscreen, or added as an optional extra by means of a small heated glass panel fitted in front of the windscreen. Wipers are also provided on some aircraft and these may be assisted by the use of rain repellent systems. Windshield or Windscreen Wipers. Independent two speed wipers are usually provided for both pilots. They may be electrically or hydraulically powered, with two operating speeds and some systems have a parking facility. They should not be operated on a dry windscreen. Windscreen Washers. This system sprays washer fluid into the windscreen panels, and is used in conjunction with the wipers to clean the windscreens; a typical control panel is shown in Figure 12.15, where a single washer control button controls the fluid for both screens. Typically the reservoir would contain about one gallon, located in one of the underfloor bays and have a sight gauge visible for replenishment. Fluid being routed from the pump to four spray nozzles, with manually operated flow distribution and control valves located on the flight deck to provide selective flow to the windshields. Windscreen Rain Repellent System. The rain repellent system consists of four valve/timer nozzles, two for each screen and a manifold which stores and distributes the fluid to the nozzles. It is charged with repellent fluid from an aerosol type disposable container which screws into the manifold. A sight gauge displays a refill float when the fluid is low, and a pressure gauge has green and red areas to indicate a go/no go condition. If the float is visible or the pressure gauge indication is in the red area, the container fluid is depleted. Figure 12.15 Typical Washer, Wiper and Repellent Controls OFF HIGH LOW WASHER REPELLENT WIPER OFF HIGH LOW REPELLENT WIPER Order: 5422 12 253 Ice and Rain Protection 12 Ice and Rain Protection The rain repellent system is used with the wipers to improve visibility during heavy rain. Rain repellent fluid is sprayed onto the respective windshield by momentarily pressing the rain repellent button switch on the captain’s or first officer’s wiper control panel. Each actuation of the switch opens the container valve for approximately one third of a second regardless of how long the switch is held in. Depending on airspeed and rain intensity, each actuation should be adequate for 2 to 5 minutes. A fully charged container holds about 75 applications, and repellent applied to a dry windscreen will reduce visibility. The use of both systems simultaneously should be avoided. See Figure 12.15. Fluid De-icing System. The method employed in this system is to spray the windscreen panel with a methyl-alcohol based fluid. The principal components of the system are a fluid storage tank, a pump which may be a hand-operated or electrically operated type, supply pipe lines and spray tube unit. Figure 12.16 illustrates the interconnection of components based on a typical aircraft system in which fluid is supplied to the spray tubes by two electrically operated pumps. The system may be operated using either of the pumps or both, according to the severity of icing. Figure 12.16 Typical windscreen fluid de-icing system Electrical Anti-icing System. This system employs a windscreen of special laminated construction heated electrically to prevent, not only the formation of ice and mist, but also to improve the impact resistance of the windscreen at low temperatures. The film-type resistance element is heated by alternating current supplied from the aircraft’s electrical system. The power required for heating varies according to the size of the panel and the heat required to suit the operating conditions. The circuit embodies a controlling device, the function of which is to maintain a constant temperature at the windscreen and also to prevent overheating of the vinyl interlayer which would cause such permanent damage as vinyl ‘bubbling’ and discolouration. In a typical anti-icing system, shown schematically in Figure 12.17, overleaf, the controlling device is connected to two temperature sensing elements laminated into the windscreen. The elements are usually in the form of a fine wire grid, the electrical resistance of which varies directly with the windscreen temperature. One sensing element is used for controlling the temperature at a normal setting and the other is used for overheat protection. A system of warning lights and, in some cases, magnetic indicators, also forms part of the control circuit and provides visual indications of circuit operating conditions, e.g. ‘normal’, ‘off’ or ‘overheat’. ID: 5790 Ice and Rain Protection 12 254 12Ice and Rain Protection When the power is applied via the system control switch and power relay, the resistance element heats the glass. When it attains a temperature pre-determined for normal operation the change in resistance of the control element causes the control device or circuit to isolate, or in some cases, to reduce the power supply to the heater element. When the glass has cooled through a certain range of temperature, power is again applied and the cycle is repeated. In the event of a failure of the controller, the glass temperature will rise until the setting of the overheat sensing element is attained. Figure 12.17 At this setting an overheat control circuit cuts off the heating power supply and illuminates a warning light. The power is restored and the warning light extinguished when the glass has cooled through a specific temperature range. In some systems a lock-out circuit may be incorporated, in which case the warning light will remain illuminated and power will only be re-applied by cycling the system control switch to ‘OFF’ and back to ‘ON’. • In addition to the normal temperature control circuit it is usual to incorporate a circuit which supplies more heating power under severe icing conditions when heat losses are high. When the high power setting is selected, the supply is switched to higher voltage output tappings of an auto transformer which also forms part of an anti-icing system circuit thus maintaining the normal operating temperature. The temperature is controlled in a manner similar to that of the normal control temperature circuit. • For ground testing purposes, the heating power supply circuit may also be controlled by landing gear shock-strut microswitches in such a way that the voltage applied to the resistance elements is lower than that normally available in flight. Order: 5422 12 255 Ice and Rain Protection 12 Ice and Rain Protection Propeller Protection Systems Ice formation on a propeller blade produces distortion to the aerofoil section, causing a loss in efficiency, possible unbalance and destructive vibration. The build up of ice must be prevented and there are two systems in use. Protection is provided either by an anti-icing fluid system,