=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

directs pneumatic pressure through a second pressure reducing valve and the down lines, to the uplock rams and retraction rams. NOTE: A low pressure is used for landing gear extension, for the same reason that restrictor valves are used in hydraulic systems, which is to prevent damage occurring through too rapid extension of the undercarriage units. Retraction rams are usually damped to prevent violent movement. The hollow piston rod is filled with oil or grease, which is forced through the space between the inner surface of the piston rod and a stationary damper piston whenever the ram extends or retracts, thus slowing movement. Uplocks and downlocks are similar to those used with hydraulic systems, the geometric down- locks being imposed by over-centring of the drag strut at the end of retraction ram stroke, and the uplocks by spring-ram operated locks. ID: 5790 Landing Gear 3 106 3Landing Gear Downlocks are released by initial movement of the retraction rams during retraction, and up- locks are released by pneumatic pressure in the spring-rams during extension. Undercarriage doors are operated mechanically, by a linkage on the shock absorber housing. An Electrical Gear Retraction System An electrical retraction system is often fitted to light aircraft which do not otherwise require the use of a high pressure fluid system. The main and nose undercarriage units are similar to those used in fluid retraction systems, but push and pull forces on the retraction mechanism are obtained by an electric motor and suitable gearing. Figure 3.10 illustrates a typical system, in which a single reversible electric motor provides the power to retract and extend the landing gear. Operation. The motor operates a screw jack, which provides angular movement to a torque tube; a push-pull rod from the torque tube acts on the drag strut of the nose undercarriage, and cables and rods from the torque tube act on the main undercarriage sidestays, rubber cord being used to assist extension of the main undercarriage units. Figure 3.10 A simple electrical gear retraction system Figure 1.7. A Simple Electrical Gear Retraction System Downlocks are imposed by over-centring of the drag strut and sidestays during final movement of the operating mechanism, with the assistance of springs. Limit switches on the drag strut and sidestays cut off electrical power and brake the motor when the downlocks have engaged, while a limit switch on the torque tube stops and brakes the motor when the landing gear is fully retracted. Undercarriage doors are operated by linkage to the shock absorber housings. Order: 5422 3 107 Landing Gear 3 Landing Gear Gear Position Indication Although the landing gear, when selected down, may be visible from the crew compartment, it is not usually possible to be certain that each undercarriage is securely locked. An electrical indicating system is used to provide a positive indication to the crew of the operation of the locks and of the position of the landing gear. The system usually consists of microswitches on the uplocks and downlocks, which make or break when the locks operate, and which are connected to a landing gear position indicator on the instrument panel. A mechanical indicator may also be provided, to show that the landing gear is down and locked when the electrical system is inoperative. Typically, the electrical indication for undercarriage systems operates in such a manner that a green light is displayed when the undercarriage is locked down, a red light is displayed when the undercarriage is in transit, and no lights are visible when the undercarriage is locked up; bulbs are usually duplicated to avoid the possibility of false indications as a result of bulb failures. On other aircraft, similar indications may be obtained by the use of magnetic indicators or lights, but on some light aircraft a single green light indicates that all undercarriages are locked down, and an amber light indicates that all undercarriages are locked up. Many large aircraft also have main gear door lock indicators to confirm the doors are locked in their correct position. The following diagrams show typical controls and indicators for an analogue and electronic displays. Courtesy of the Boeing Company Figure 3.11 Landing gear selectors and indicators Courtesy of the Boeing Company Figure 1.8 Landing Gear Selectors and Indicators ID: 5790 Landing Gear 3 108 3Landing Gear Courtesy of Airbus Industrie Figure 3.12 An Airbus ECAM page Gear Safety Features Since the correct operation of the landing gear is of the utmost importance, a number of safety features are included in the retraction system to ensure its correct operation under all conditions. Nose Wheel Centring To avoid damage to the airframe structure, the nose wheel must always be aligned in a fore (front) and aft (rear) direction during retraction, and a number of methods are used to ensure that this happens automatically. One method already discussed on page 96, is hydraulic nose wheel centring on aircraft with powered steering. Gear Selector Lock To prevent inadvertent retraction of the landing gear when the aircraft is resting on its wheels, a safety device is incorporated which prevents movement of the selector lever. This safety device consists of a spring-loaded plunger which retains the selector in the down position and is released by the operation of a solenoid. Electrical power to the solenoid is controlled by a switch mounted on the shock absorber strut (part of the air\ground logic circuits). Order: 5422 3 109 Landing Gear 3 Landing Gear When the strut is compressed the switch is open, but as the strut extends after take-off, the switch contacts close and the electrical supply to the solenoid is completed, thus releasing the selector lever lock and allowing the landing gear to be selected up. A means of overriding the lock, such as a separate gated switch to complete the circuit, or a mechanical means of avoiding the locking plunger, is provided for emergency use and for maintenance purposes. See Figure 3.11. Ground Locks Ground locks or landing gear locking pins are a further safety feature which is intended to prevent collapse of the gear when the aircraft is unpowered on the ground. They will usually consist of pins or metal sleeves which interfere unpowered with the operation of the gear in such a way that it is impossible for the gear to move when they are in position. They are fitted with warning flags which should prevent the crew from getting airborne with them still in position on the gear. This can be prevented by ensuring that the ground locks are removed before flight and stowed on board the aircraft and the flight crew are informed that they have been removed and stowed safely on the aircraft. Warning Devices To guard against landing with the landing gear retracted or unlocked, a warning horn is incorporated in the system and connected to a throttle operated switch. If one or more throttle levers are less than approximately one third open, as would be the case during approach to land, the horn sounds if the landing gear is in any position other than down and locked. A horn isolation switch is often provided to allow certain flight exercises and ground servicing operations to be carried out without hindrance, but an airspeed switch is a definite advantage, since unlike an isolation switch, it cannot be first used, and then forgotten, with perhaps disastrous consequences. An airspeed switch can also be used to prevent the horn sounding during initial descent from high altitude. GPWS - Ground Proximity Warning System The GPWS will be inhibited below 500 ft only if the gear is locked down and the flaps are in the landing position. For further information see the Warnings and Recording section in Book 5. Landing Gear Operating Speeds VLO VLO is the Maximum Velocity (V) for Landing (L) gear Operation (O). Do not exceed this speed while the landing gear is operating. VLE VLE is the Maximum Velocity (V) with Landing (L) gear Extended (E). Do not exceed this speed with the landing gear extended. ID: 5790 Landing Gear 3 110 3Landing Gear When the landing gear is fully retracted or fully extended it is locked into position and is more resistant to damage from high airspeeds. When the landing gear is in the process of extending or retracting (operating) there is no locking mechanism, and the only thing resisting the airflow is the extension/retraction mechanisms. Additionally, on some aircraft, the landing gear may swing or swivel in odd directions in order to tuck into their recesses, this can cause odd aerodynamic behaviour in the rest of the aircraft if done at high speeds. Once the landing gear is extended, it is rare that a pilot would then exceed VLO. Most of the time the landing gear is lowered shortly before landing and the pilot is doing everything he can to slow the aircraft further. However in the event that an aircraft had to be flown a long distance with the landing gear extended (such as a ferry flight to a repair