=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

locked to make sure that they do not loosen in service. This may involve the use of locking wire, split pins or special nuts. Pinning As the name implies this uses pins of various designs to hold the materials together. Adhesive Bonding Redux bonding is one of the common methods used. A sheet of adhesive is placed between the two materials, heat is then applied to cure the adhesive which produces a strong bond. One advantage of this method is that compared to say riveted joints, it is easier to seal structures making it particularly useful for fuel tanks. Corrosion Introduction Corrosion may be regarded as the slow destruction of a metal by electrochemical action, electrolytic corrosion. Considerable research by chemists and metallurgists is continually being carried out to find more effective methods of preventing this destruction, but corrosion remains a major problem. General Most metals are unstable, corrosion is the tendency of the metal to return to a stable state similar to that of the metallic ore from which it originated. With corrosive attack the metal is converted into metallic compounds such as oxides, hydroxides, carbonates, sulphates or other salts. Corrosion is largely electrochemical in character, and occurs in conditions that permit the formation of minute electrolytic electrical cells in or on the attacked metal, in the presence of an electrolyte. It will also occur when a difference in potential exists between the different constituents of an alloy, or where dissimilar metals are in contact. When a metal is exposed to the air, oxygen reacts with the bare metal to form an oxide film which adheres to the metal surface. This oxide film forms a barrier between the air and the metal surface which protects the underlying metal against further attack. This is all the protection required by some metals, however, the oxides may react chemically or combine with water to produce a film, oxidation that is not impervious to the passage of further oxygen through it. The oxide film may crack or flake exposing the surface to further oxidation, or the oxides may volatilize if the metal is subject to heat. ID: 5790 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces 1 28 1Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces Figure 1.28 Oxidation With the exception of oxidation, corrosion takes place when the metal is in contact with water, either as a liquid or as moisture in the atmosphere. The degree of corrosion is proportional to the impurities in the water, the impurities being due to industrial pollution which has a high sulphur content, or airbourne salt particles when operating over the sea. The resultant action is that the metal undergoes chemical change, the metal is converted into a chemical compound whilst the other metal remains untouched. Evidence of Corrosion The attack may extend over the entire surface of the metal or it may penetrate locally forming deep pits, or follow grain boundaries inside the core of the metal. The weakening effect can be aggravated by stresses in the metal, due to external loads, or they may be residual stresses from the manufacturing process or method of assembly. Types of Corrosion The process of corrosion are complex and the various types of corrosion, oxidation and electrolytic (sometimes referred to as galvanic), seldom occur separately. One type of corrosion frequently leads to another so that two or more types can exist simultaneously in the same piece of metal. In aeronautical engineering the need to keep the weight of the aircraft structure to a minimum commensurate with safety has lead to the development of high strength alloys, most of which contain aluminium or magnesium. These alloys suffer damaging corrosion unless effectively protected, the rate of deterioration under unfavourable conditions can be very rapid. Aircraft operate under widely varying climatic conditions in all parts of the world some of the environments being highly conductive to corrosive attack. RATE OF CORROSION TYPE OF ATMOSPHERE Highly conductive to corrosion Tropical Industrial Marine Moderate corrosion Temperate Suburban Inland Low rate of corrosion Arctic Rural Order: 5422 1 29 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces 1 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces Corrosion is one of the most persistent defects found in aircraft, rectification of advanced corrosion has been known to take thousands of man hours. It is therefore essential that corrosion is recognized at the earliest possible stage and effective preventative measures taken. Surface Corrosion This is fairly uniform attack which slowly reduces the cross-sectional thickness of the sound material, and so weakens the structure. The attack is recognized by etching or pitting of the surface, the products of corrosion are recognized as: Steels Ferrous metals other than stainless steel become covered with reddish brown powder commonly known as rust. Aluminium and Magnesium Corrosion produces powdery deposits and the colour of which varies between white and grey. Corrosion of magnesium may take the form of deep pitting or may be fluffy or granular. Copper Alloys Copper corrosion in its most common form produces a blue-green salt deposit. Surface corrosion is the least damaging form of corrosion since there is evidence of the attack, so that it can be detected and rectified at an early stage. Intergranular Corrosion An intergranular (or inter-crystalline) corrosion penetrates the core of the metal along the grain boundaries. As the material at the grain boundaries are usually anodic to the grain centres, the production of corrosion are concentrated at the boundaries. The rate of attack is not limited by the lack of oxygen, and is accelerated if applied or residual stresses are present. Repeated fluctuating or tensile stresses cause separation of the grain boundaries accelerating the spread of the corrosion. As a result higher stress concentrations occur in the remaining sound material, this production cracks, which spread leading to complete failure. It is probably the most dangerous form of corrosion as detection is difficult, and serious weakening may occur before any external evidence is visible. The only surface indication is a series of hairline cracks, these are usually only visible through a magnifying glass. There is no effective method of determining or limiting the loss of strength that will occur, so that when detected, parts must be immediately rejected. Stress Corrosion A combination of steady tensile load and corrosive conditions produce a form of metal fatigue known as stress corrosion cracking (SCC) . The stresses may be built in during manufacture of the part, or introduced during assembly, or may be due to operational or structural loads. A metal under stress corrodes more rapidly than unstressed parts, initially there is pitting of the surface. Loss of the metal at the corrosion pit intensifies the stress at this point, producing a crack which extends under the combined action of corrosion and load until failure occurs. There is generally little visible evidence of corrosion and no apparent loss of metal. ID: 5790 Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces 1 30 1Fuselage, Wings and Stabilizing Surfaces Structural Limitations Maximum Structural Taxi Mass This is sometimes referred to as Maximum Ramp Mass and it is the structural limitation of the aeroplane mass at commencement of taxi (at departure from the loading gate). The aeroplane would then burn fuel down to ‘Take-off Mass’ (TOM). Maximum Take-off Mass (MTOM) This is the maximum permissible mass of the aeroplane including everything and everyone contained in it at the start of the take off run. Maximum Structural Landing Mass (MSLM) The maximum permissible total aeroplane mass on landing in normal circumstances. The Maximum Zero Fuel Mass (MZFM) is defined as the ‘maximum permissible mass of an aeroplane with no usable fuel’. Bending moments, which apply at the wing root, are maximum when the quantity of fuel in the wings is minimum. During flight, the quantity of fuel located in the wings, mmF, decreases. As a consequence, it is necessary to limit the weight when there is no fuel in the tanks. This limit value is called Maximum Zero Fuel Mass (MZFM). Figure 1.29 MZFM Heavy Landings Aircraft landing gear is designed to withstand landing at a particular aircraft weight and vertical descent velocity (the maximum is 10 ft/sec or 3.15 m/sec at maximum landing weight). If either of these parameters are exceeded during a landing then damage may have been caused to the landing gear or supporting structure and these loads can be transmitted to the fuselage and mainplanes. Overstressing may also be caused by landing with drift or landing in an abnormal attitude, e.g. nose or tail wheels striking the runway before the main wheels. Some aircraft are fitted with heavy landing indicators, which give a visual indication that specific “g“ forces have been exceeded but in all cases of suspected heavy landings the flight crew should give details of the aircraft weight, fuel distribution, landing condition and whether any noises indicative of structural failure were heard. The damage which may be expected following a heavy landing would normally be concentrated around the landing gear, its supporting structure in the wings or fuselage, the wing and tailplane attachments and the engine mountings. Secondary damage may