=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

gravity, however, the maximum governor fitted to some gas turbine engines is sensitive to changes in specific gravity and so would require some adjustment if a different specific gravity fuel was uplifted. Fuel Systems The Aircraft Storage System The fuel is carried in (or on) the aircraft within tanks which can be integral, rigid or flexible. • Integral tanks - where the inside of the wings and, depending on type, the centre section torsion box and horizontal stabilizer, are sealed during manufacture to provide large volume fuel storage. The advantage of this type of tank is that there is little extra weight added to the aircraft as the tank structure is formed by the structure already required; all modern large passenger aircraft will have this type of tank. • Rigid tanks - a sealed metal container mounted in the aircraft wing or fuselage. Simple but does add extra weight and requires mounting structure. Most popular on light aircraft. This type of tank may be fitted externally, on the wing tip for example, made of metal or a composite construction. • Flexible tanks - bags made of sealed rubberized fabric, sometimes referred to as fuel bladders or bag tanks. This type of tank requires structure inside the aircraft to attach and support it. They are typically mounted inside the wing or fuselage, more popular on military aircraft as they can be effectively ‘self-sealing’ in the event of battle damage occurring. Baffles are fitted within the tank to minimize the large inertial forces generated when the fuel surges during aircraft manoeuvres, acceleration, deceleration or sideslip for example. Some large aircraft may be fitted with baffle check valves which allow the fuel to flow inboard but not outboard towards the wingtips during manoeuvres. Fuel tanks also incorporate vents, water drains, feed pipes, gauging system and filler caps. In larger aircraft the tanks will also have booster pumps, high and low level float switches, pressure refuelling valves and filters. Order: 5422 16 315 Aircraft Fuel Systems 16 Aircraft Fuel Systems The aircraft fuel system is designed to store and deliver fuel to the engine fuel system. It must be capable of delivering more fuel than the engine can possibly use in its most critical phase of flight so that the engine is never starved of fuel. Simple, Light Aircraft Fuel Systems In a simple, light aircraft fuel system the fuel tanks are usually rigid tanks fitted in the wings and filled by the overwing method (open line through a filler cap in the top of the tank). These aircraft may use a gravity feed system or one using a pressure pump. Single-engine Light Aircraft Gravity Feed Fuel System Many high wing single-engine aircraft tend to use a gravity feed fuel system. These can be used when the fuel tank is high enough above the carburettor to provide the pressure required at the carburettor float chamber. Figure 16.1 Single-engine light aircraft gravity feed fuel system ID: 5790 Aircraft Fuel Systems 16 316 16Aircraft Fuel Systems Single-engine Light Aircraft Pressure Fed Fuel System Other light aircraft use a pressure fed system similar to the gravity system but with the fuel being delivered by a pressure pump. The fuel is drawn from the tanks by a mechanical or electrical fuel pump through a tank selector and filter before being delivered to the carburettor. Engine priming is achieved by use of a priming pump which takes fuel from the filter housing and delivers it to the inlet manifold. The fuel system is monitored for contents and pressure and the fuel drains allow any water to be removed before flight. Figure 16.2 Single-engine light aircraft fuel system Multi-engine aircraft have more complex fuel systems to cope with the extra requirements for altitude and engine configuration. The fuel tanks are invariably integral tanks and are in the wings. Most modern aircraft may also have a ‘centre tank’, a tank in the centre section torque box between the wings. There are also aircraft fuel systems which include fuel tanks in the empennage (fin or stabilizer) which as well as being used to increase the fuel capacity may also be used to affect the aircraft centre of gravity. The system will include the following. • Vent system - may include vent valves and vent surge tank. Allows the air pressure above the fuel in the tank to equalize with the ambient pressure and may also provide for ram air to be introduced to partially pressurize the tanks in flight to assist the fuel flow and help to reduce fuel boiling at altitude. Any fuel overflowing into the vent system is collected by the vent/surge tank and recycled back to the main tanks. The vent space in each fuel tank as required by CS-23 and CS-25 is 2% of the tank volume. Order: 5422 16 317 Aircraft Fuel Systems 16 Aircraft Fuel Systems • Filters (screens) - are used to prevent any debris in the tank being drawn into the booster pumps. • Booster pumps - normally fitted in pairs in each tank to pump fuel from the tank to the engine. They are a necessity in high altitude aircraft to prevent cavitation of the engine driven pump. Booster pumps are typically centrifugal pumps driven by AC induction motors providing low pressure (20 - 40 psi) and high flow. In the event of a double booster pump failure in one main tank the aircraft Minimum Equipment List will invariably limit the aircraft to a maximum operating altitude to prevent fuel starvation. • Collector tank (feeder box) - The booster pumps are fitted in a collector tank or feeder box which always holds a measured quantity of fuel (typically 500 kg) to allow the pumps to be continually submerged in fuel thereby preventing pump cavitation due to attitude changes of the aircraft which could cause the pumps to be uncovered. The collector tank may also have the facility to enable the pumps to be replaced without draining all the fuel from the tank. • Cross-feed and shut-off valves - to enable fuel to be fed from any tank to any engine and isolated in the event of a fault or emergency. • High and low level float switches or level sensors - High level switches are used to automatically close the refuel valve when the tank is full (automatic top off) during refuelling and the low level switches are used to maintain a required minimum fuel in the main tanks during fuel jettison or dumping. • Fuel drains - as in a light aircraft each fuel tank will have a fuel drain at the lowest point in the tank to allow water to be drained from the tank. • Baffles - are fitted in the tanks to dampen rapid movement of fuel (surging or sloshing) during manoeuvring. • Overpressure relief valve - In the event of the fuel tank being over pressurized due to a malfunction a relief valve may be incorporated to prevent structural damage to the tank. The following diagram, Figure 16.3, shows a typical two-engine jet aircraft system schematic layout with controls and indications. NOTE: The wing tanks are split into two elements, outer and inner sections which are sometimes incorporated to allow a certain amount of fuel to remain in the outer section until the inner has reached a pre-determined level. Keeping fuel outboard in this manner helps to reduce wing bending stress and relieve flutter. ID: 5790 Aircraft Fuel Systems 16 318 16Aircraft Fuel Systems Figure 16.3 Fuel schematic NO.1 TANK ENGINE DRIVEN FUEL PUMP FUELLING STATION MANUAL DEFUELLING VALVE 2 VALVE OPEN CROSS FEED FUEL VALVE CLOSED FUEL TEMP LOW PRESSURE L CTR FILTER BYPASS FILTER BYPASS CROSS-FEED VALVE APU CENTRE TANK SCAVENGE JET PUMP FUEL SCAVENGE SHUT-OFF VALVE APU FUEL SHUT-OFF VALVE APU BYPASS VALVE ENGINE FUEL SHUT-OFF VALVE NO.2 TANK FUEL FEED CENTRE TANK FUEL PUMPS FUEL VALVE CLOSED LOW PRESSURE LOW PRESSURE 1 LOW PRESSURE LOW PRESSURE R LOW PRESSURE SUCTION VALVE Courtesy of the Boeing Company Order: 5422 16 319 Aircraft Fuel Systems 16 Aircraft Fuel Systems Aircraft Fuel Systems (Twin Engines) The normal sequence of fuel usage after take-off would be to use the centre tank fuel first followed by the wing tank fuel. This sequence helps to relieve the wing bending stress. When the booster pumps can no longer pump fuel from the centre tank the residual fuel can be removed to the No.1 tank by use of the centre tank scavenge system. The cross-feed valve allows both engines to be fed from one side or one engine to be fed from both sides. Suction valves in the tanks allow the engine to be fed by gravity or suction by the engine driven pump in the event of both booster pumps failing in one tank. The control panel shows selector switches for each pump accompanied by low pressure warning lights to show pump failure or low fuel level. There is also a control switch and indicator light for the cross-feed valve. There