=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

A wheel(s). • A means of absorbing landing shocks. • A means of controlling deceleration of the aircraft. • A means to withstand turning and braking stresses • Large aircraft (Boeing 747) have the ability to turn part of the main gear to assist with steering during tight turns by reducing the turning radius. When the nose wheels are turned the main wheels turn in the opposite direction ID: 5790 Landing Gear 3 94 3Landing Gear Figure 3.2 A wing mounted landing gear assembly Fuselage Mounted Landing Gear For aircraft with the undercarriage built into the fuselage, the requirements are basically the same as those for the wing mounted landing gear, except that: • With no geometric lock available, provision has to be made for locking the undercarriage up and down. • Depending on wheel layout, each wheel may require its own shock absorber unit, and possibly even a steering motor. • Ease of access to the undercarriage in flight allows manual lowering of the undercarriage in emergency. Loads Sustained by the Landing Gear An undercarriage unit has to withstand varying loads during its life. These loads are transmitted to the mountings in the aircraft structure, so these too must be very strong. The loads sustained are: • Compressive (static and on touchdown). • Rearward bending. • Side (during crosswind landings, take-offs, and taxiing). • Forwards (during push back). • Torsional (ground manoeuvring). Order: 5422 3 95 Landing Gear 3 Landing Gear Nose Undercarriage A nose undercarriage unit, like the one shown in Figure 3.3, is usually a lighter structure than a main unit since it carries less weight and is usually subject only to direct compression loads. It does, however, carry the attachment for the towing equipment and so must withstand shear loads as well. Its design is complicated by several requirements: • Castoring. • Self-centring. • Steering. • Anti-shimmy. • Withstand shear loads. Figure 3.3 A nose landing gear Castoring To enable the aircraft to be manoeuvred about the airfield the nose wheel must castor freely though subjected to compression and shear loading, which presents a problem in the bearing design. Castoring is the ability of the nose wheel to turn to either side in response to the results of differential braking or aerodynamic forces on the rudder. ID: 5790 Landing Gear 3 96 3Landing Gear Self-centring Automatic self-centring of the nose wheel is essential prior to landing gear retraction. If the nose gear is not in a central position prior to its retraction, the restricted space available for its stowage will not be sufficient and severe damage may be caused to the aircraft structure as the hydraulic system forces the gear upwards. Centring is achieved by either a spring loaded cam or a hydraulic dashpot. Nose Wheel Steering A method of steering is required to enable the pilot to manoeuvre the aircraft safely on the ground. Early methods involved the use of differential braking. Powered steering using hydraulic systems are now common to most large commercial aircraft, allowing the engines to be set at the minimum thrust for taxiing, thereby saving fuel, an important consideration with large jet engines. This method of steering is more accurate and also reduces tyre and brake wear and noise pollution. To allow free castoring of the nose undercarriage when required, e.g. towing, a bypass is provided in the steering system hydraulics to allow fluid to transfer from one side to the other. When steering is selected this bypass is closed by hydraulic pressure. Steering is controlled, depending on the type of aircraft, by: • A separate steering wheel. • Operation of rudder pedals. Incorporated in the steering system are: • Self-centring jack. • Shimmy damper. Power Steering Systems Although light aircraft use a simple steering system, where the nose wheel is mechanically linked to the rudder pedals, larger aircraft require powered steering arrangements. Within a power steering system, the nose wheel is rotated by electric, pneumatic, or most commonly, hydraulic power. This last type of system would include a cockpit steering wheel or tiller, a control valve, steering cylinders to turn the nose gear, a mechanical feedback device to hold the steering at the selected angle and a power source, normally the aircraft hydraulic supply fed from the engine driven pumps. Order: 5422 3 97 Landing Gear 3 Landing Gear Nose Wheel Steering Operation Normal nose wheel steering operating pressure is derived from the undercarriage ‘down’ line, and a limited emergency supply is provided by a hydraulic accumulator. In the system shown in Figure 3.4, hydraulic pressure passes through a change-over valve, which ensures that the steering system is only in operation when the nose undercarriage is down. Steering Operation. Pressure is directed through the control valve to the steering jacks, which retract or extend to rotate the nose shock absorber strut within its housing. Movement of the steering wheel is transmitted through mechanical linkage to the control valve, in accordance with the amount and direction of turn required. Figure 3.4 The hydraulic layout of a typical nose wheel steering system A follow-up linkage from the nose undercarriage gradually resets the control valve as the nose wheel turns. When the steering wheel is released, the control valve returns to neutral under the action of its centring springs, and the nose wheel is free to castor. Self-centring operation. An inner cylinder in each steering jack is connected to the landing gear ‘up’ line and is supplied with fluid under pressure when the landing gear is selected up. The steering jacks extend equally to centralize the nose wheel before pressure is applied to the nose retraction jack, and the bypass valve allows fluid from the steering jacks to flow to the return line. ID: 5790 Landing Gear 3 98 3Landing Gear Castoring. Whenever the control valve is in its neutral position, fluid is free to flow between the steering jacks, thus allowing the aircraft to be towed, or the nose wheel to return to the central position after a turn has been initiated with the steering wheel. Angular movement of the nose wheel during towing will be transmitted through the follow-up linkage to the steering wheel. Some form of quick-release pin is often provided to enable the steering jacks to be disconnected so that the nose wheel may be turned through large angles during ground servicing. Damping. Restrictors in the pipelines between the control valve and the steering jacks provide damping for the nose wheel steering operation. Nose Wheel Shimmy Due to the flexibility of tyre side walls, an unstable, rapid sinusoidal oscillation or vibration known as shimmy is induced into the nose undercarriage. Excessive shimmy, especially at high speeds, can set up vibrations throughout the aircraft and can be dangerous. Worn or broken torque links, wear in the wheel bearings and uneven tyre pressures can all increase the tendency to shimmy. Shimmy can be reduced in several ways: • Provision of a hydraulic lock across the steering jack piston. • Fitting a hydraulic damper. • Fitting heavy self-centring springs. • Double nose wheels. • Twin contact wheels. Undercarriage Configuration The increase in size and all up weight (AUW) of modern aircraft has led to an increase in wheel loading; this is defined as the static load on each wheel of the landing gear at aircraft take-off weight. Since the main undercarriage carries a large proportion of the aircraft weight, main wheels are the greatest problem. Wheel loading, in lb/unit area, has a direct bearing on the type of surface from which the aircraft can operate, thus the role of the aircraft directly affects the undercarriage configuration. An aircraft with a high wheel loading would damage the surface of a low strength runway. As it is very expensive to strengthen the very long runways required for modern transport aircraft, undercarriages which confer low wheel loadings are in considerable use. These replace large single wheels using high pressure tyres with a number of small wheels using low pressure tyres: the larger aircraft (B747, B777 and A340) may have 10 to 18 wheels in their landing gear. More than two main legs may be provided to spread the load, wing and body gear on a 747, 777 and A340 for example. The actual configuration chosen for the aircraft is determined by the problem of stowage when retracted as well as the load spreading consideration. Order: 5422 3 99 Landing Gear 3 Landing Gear Multi-wheeled units have advantages other than just reduction of wheel loading. These are: • Weight. The greater the number of wheels, the lighter the unit can become as the wheels are smaller. This point is hard to prove, since with the size of today’s modern aircraft, a single wheel unit would be impracticable anyway. • Ease of Servicing . Although the whole unit is more complex, the changing of wheels or brake units is easier than on a single wheel U/C and individual components are much nearer the ground. • Greater Safety Factor. In the event of a burst tyre there will