=== SYSTEM PROMPT ===
PROHIBIDO inferir normativas que no estén explícitamente en el texto.
Busca activamente umbrales numéricos y formatéalos en Markdown Tables.
No repitas introducciones pasadas.
=====================

to prevent incorrect installation. This valve is also known as a One Way Check valve or Non-reversible valve. Figure 2.20 A simple non-return valve One Way Restrictor Valves (or choke). A restrictor valve may be similar in construction to a non-return valve, but a restrictor valve is designed to permit limited flow in one direction and full flow in the other direction; the restriction is usually of fixed size, as shown in Figure 2.21. A restrictor valve is used in a number of locations in order to limit the speed of operation of an actuator in one direction only. It may, for instance, be used to slow down flap retraction or landing gear extension (up line for both). Figure 2.21 Restrictor valve ID: 5790 Basic Hydraulics 2 68 2Basic Hydraulics Selector Valves. Selector valves are used to direct fluid to the appropriate side of a jack and connect the other side to return. Some are manually operated but on large transport aircraft they are operated remotely either mechanically or electrically. Selectors are of two main types open centre or closed centre and may be rotary or linear in construction. Rotary Selectors. Different types of rotary selectors are used depending on the type of actuator. A simple two port selector is used with a single acting actuator. Double acting actuators will use a four port selector. This enables the actuator to be extended by directing fluid to one side of the actuator and open the opposite side to return. The selector can then be rotated to redirect the fluid to retract the actuator. Figure 2.22 Typical four port selector Linear Slide Selector or Spool Valve Selector. This type of selector is operated by a linear movement and is typically operated mechanically by a rod or cable but may be operated electrically. Figure 2.23 Linear slide selector or spool valve selector Order: 5422 2 69 Basic Hydraulics 2 Basic Hydraulics Electrically-operated Selectors. It is sometimes convenient to locate a selector valve at a position remote from the crew compartment. To eliminate the need for extensive mechanical linkage the selector is operated electrically, it may be a motor driven or solenoid controlled selector. Shuttle Valves. These are often used in landing gear and brake systems, to enable an alternate system to operate the same actuators as the normal system. During normal operation, free flow is provided from the normal system to the service and the alternate line is blocked. When normal system pressure is lost and the alternate system is selected, the shuttle valve moves across because of the pressure difference, blocking the normal line and allowing the alternate supply to operate the services e.g. brakes, landing gear etc. A typical shuttle valve is shown in Figure 2.24. Figure 2.24 Shuttle valve Sequence Valves. Sequence valves are often fitted in a landing gear circuit to ensure correct operation of the landing gear doors and jacks. Refer to Figure 2.25. Figure 2.25 A sequence valve Figure 1.22 A Sequence Valve. ID: 5790 Basic Hydraulics 2 70 2Basic Hydraulics Modulators. A modulator is used in conjunction with the anti-skid unit in a brake system. It allows full flow to the brake units on initial brake application, and thereafter a restricted flow. Flow Control Valves. A flow control valve may be fitted in a hydraulic system to maintain a constant flow of fluid to a particular component; it is frequently found upstream of a hydraulic motor which is required to operate at a constant speed. Fuses. Modern jet aircraft are dependent on their hydraulic systems, not only for raising and lowering the landing gear, but for control system boosts, thrust reversers, flaps, brakes, and many auxiliary systems. For this reason most aircraft use more than one independent system; and in these systems, provisions are made to fuse or block a line if a serious leak should occur. Of the two basic types of hydraulic fuses in use, one operates in such a way that it will shut off the flow of fluid if sufficient pressure drop occurs across the fuse. A second type of fuse, does not operate on the principle of pressure drop, but it will shut off the flow after a given amount of fluid has passed through the line. Normal operation of the unit protected by this fuse does not require enough flow to allow the piston to drift completely over and seal off the line. If there is a leak, sufficient fluid will flow that the piston will move over and block the line. Wheel brakes are invariably protected by fuse units. Instrumentation Indication of system condition and functioning is required in the cockpit or flight deck. Light aircraft utilize some form of warning lamp, indicating the operation of the electric (pump) motor in addition to undercarriage and flap warning lights or indicators. Larger aircraft will have the means of indicating contents (U/C), pressure and temperature of the system and, generally, varying means of dealing with abnormal operating conditions. Order: 5422 2 71 Basic Hydraulics 2 Basic Hydraulics Figure 2.26 A hydraulic system control panel ID: 5790 Basic Hydraulics 2 72 2Basic Hydraulics Figure 2.27 An ECAM hydraulic system page The diagram above shows an electronic display from an Airbus aircraft displaying the hydraulic system configuration and indications. Three separate systems can be seen along with relevant valve positions, quantity, pump status and pressures. The accumulator for the ‘green’ system is showing a low air pressure caption. Quantity Indicators. A clear window fitted in the reservoir provides a means of checking fluid level during servicing, but the reservoir may also be fitted with a float-type contents unit, which electrically signals fluid quantity to an instrument on the hydraulics panel in the crew compartment. Pressure Relays. A pressure relay is a component which transmits fluid pressure to a direct reading pressure gauge, or to a pressure transmitter which electrically indicates pressure on an instrument on the hydraulics panel (See Figure 2.28). Pressure Gauges. Electrically operated pressure gauges are fitted on the hydraulics panel, to register main and emergency system pressure. Direct reading gauges are often fitted to the accumulators and reservoirs, to enable servicing operations to be carried out. Figure 2.28 Pressure relays Order: 5422 2 73 Basic Hydraulics 2 Basic Hydraulics Pressure Switches. Pressure switches are often used to illuminate a warning lamp, and to indicate loss of fluid pressure, or loss of air pressure in a reservoir. Flow Indication. A flow indicator valve is often fitted in the outlet line from a constant delivery pump, and is used to provide warning of pump failure. Temperature Indication. Warning of fluid overheating is normally provided by a temperature sensing element in the reservoir. Warning of overheating of electrical motors which are used to operate emergency pumps, is normally provided by fitting a similar element in the motor casing. Components for Servicing Purposes A number of components are included in the hydraulic system specifically to facilitate servicing. These components are normally located in the hydraulic equipment bay. Quick-disconnect and Ground Servicing Couplings . In positions where it is necessary to frequently disconnect a coupling for servicing purposes, a self-sealing, quick-disconnect coupling is fitted. The coupling enables the line to be disconnected without loss of fluid, and without the need for subsequent bleeding. Pressure Release Valves or Off Load Controls. These are fitted to enable pressure to be released from the system for servicing purposes. The valves are manually operated, and used prior to checking and setting pre change pressures or reservoir levels. Drain Cocks (valves). Drain cocks (valves) are generally simple manually operated spherical valves, and are located in the hydraulics bay at the lowest point in the system to enable the fluid to be drained. Shut-off Valves. These are fitted at the engine bulkhead (firewall) and will enable the fluid supply to the engine driven pumps to be stopped in the event of engine fire or component replacement. They are usually spherical ball cocks,(valves) which allow unrestricted flow when open. Bleed Points. Air in the system causes loud bangs and erratic operation. Bleed points are provided throughout the system to allow air to be removed. Fluid Sampling Points. Fluid sampling points are suitably positioned in the suction and pressure lines, to enable samples of fluid to be removed for analysis. Overheated fluid will appear darker than normal. A “milky” appearance indicates water. Powered Flying Controls Sub-system. A hydraulic sub-system for the operation of the flying controls, is often fed through a priority valve or pressure maintaining valve, which ensures that fluid under pressure is always available; the sub-system may also have a separate accumulator. Most modern aircraft will have alternate hydraulic supplies available for flight controls. Two, three or even four independent hydraulic systems can simultaneously supply power for primary flying controls. A complete system is shown in Figure 2.29 and Figure 2.30, overleaf. The position and purpose of the major components are illustrated. ID: 5790 Basic Hydraulics 2 74 2Basic Hydraulics Figure 2.29 G S C High Pressure (HP) Filter Another Hydraulic